---
layout: post
title: Humanitarian assistance to Gaza by Israel
joomla_id: 439
joomla_url: humanitarian-assistance-to-gaza-by-israel
date: 2008-09-13 02:52:30.000000000 +02:00
---
<span class="HPBriefText"><p><font face="Arial"><a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mjJyi-Pp3p4" target="_self"><strong>The Unit for Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories reports daily on the general humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip.</strong></a> The data for the supplies transferred via the Karni and Sufa crossings are based on the reports of Palestinian merchants.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Two-way traffic at the <strong><em>Erez Crossing</em></strong>&nbsp;of international organizations' staff, Gaza residents seeking medical treatment together with the people accompanying them (&quot;medical evacuations&quot;), and Palestinian civilians&nbsp; has been permitted for humanitarian reasons since 18 January 2007 and occurs daily. </font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Humanitarian aid includes food, medicines and medical equipment, tools and materials for esssential humanitarian infrastructures, and a certain amount of diesel fuel. Cement, sand, gravel and steel are not considered to be humanitarian aid.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Via the&nbsp;conveyor at the <strong><em>Karni Crossing,</em></strong> hundreds of tons of grain - wheat, barley, soy beans, corn and animal feed - are transferred from Israel to the Gaza Strip every week.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Via the <strong><em>Nahal Oz</em></strong> fuel depot, diesel fuel for transportation and for&nbsp;the local Gaza&nbsp;power station, petrol, and gas for cooking and heating are transferred from Israel to the Gaza Strip, according to an assessment of civilian needs mandated by the <a href="http://www.mfa.gov.il/MFA/Government/Law/Legal+Issues+and+Rulings/Supreme+Court+rules+on+supply+of+fuel+and+electricity+to+Gaza+27-Jan-2008.htm">Israeli court</a> (weekly supply: petrol - 120,000 liters; diesel fuel for transportation - 1,200,000 liters; diesel fuel for power station - 2,900,000 liters;&nbsp; cooking and heating gas according to demand).</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Via the <strong><em>Sufa Crossing</em></strong>, the following supplies are transferred by truck from Israel to the Gaza Strip: food, including: baby formula and food, rice and legumes, fruits and vegetables, meat, chicken and fish, dairy products, flour and yeast, oil, salt and sugar;&nbsp;hygiene products; tools and raw materials for essential infrastructures; medicines and medical equipment; and a myriad of other items - ranging from school books to wheel chairs -&nbsp;needed by the civilian population.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">The <strong><em>Kerem Shalom Crossing</em></strong> was closed&nbsp;after&nbsp;it was <a href="http://www.mfa.gov.il/MFA/Terrorism-+Obstacle+to+Peace/Hamas+war+against+Israel/The+Hamas+war+against+Israel+A+Diary+-+April+2008.htm">attacked by&nbsp; terrorists</a> on 19 April 2008. </font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Usually the crossings are closed on Fridays and Saturdays (the Sabbath).</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">On June 19, an agreement to establish a &quot;state of calm&quot; in the Gaza Strip and the Israeli territory adjacent to it went into effect. On June 22, following four days of quiet, the amount of merchandise transferred to the Gaza Strip&nbsp;via the Sufa and Karni crossings was increased. The number of trucks that delivered goods via the crossings during the week 22-27 June was 476, compared to 158 the week before and 172&nbsp;the week before that. The&nbsp;fuel terminal at the Nahal Oz crossing also&nbsp;returned to its previous capacity. Civilians with compelling humanitarian problems continue to enter and leave the Gaza Strip through the Erez crossing. </font></p> <p><font face="Arial">On 24 June, the Palestinians <a href="http://www.mfa.gov.il/MFA/About+the+Ministry/Behind+the+Headlines/Behind+the+Headlines-+Calm+in+the+South+19-Jun-2008.htm">violated the agreement</a> with Israel by launching a mortar bomb and several rockets that landed in Israeli territory. The crossings were temporarily closed.&nbsp;</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">The <strong>Kerem Shalom crossing</strong> reopened on August 18 for the passage of humanitarian goods,&nbsp; after extensive&nbsp; work was done to repair damage to the crossing caused by the bombing attacks in April.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">The opening of&nbsp;the crossings and the amounts of goods&nbsp; allowed to pass through them is conditional on Palestinian adherence to the calm agreement.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>September 2, 2008<br /></strong>A total of 3903 tons of humanitarian aid were delivered to the Gaza Strip via the Sufa and Karni crossings.<br />Sufa: 52 trucks<br />Karni: 99 trucks<br />Nahal Oz: 653,000 liters of fuel and 180 tons of gas<br />Erez: 23 medical evacuations<br />Kerem Shalom crossing was closed.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 31, 2008:<br /></strong>A total of 1078 tons (65 truckloads) of humanitarian aid (food, medicines, and raw materials for essential infrastructures) were delivered to the Gaza Strip via the Sufa crossing.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Nahal Oz: 1,595,000 liters of fuel and 376 tons of cooking gas<br />Erez crossing: 28 medical evacuations.<br />Kerem Shalom and Karni crossings were closed.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 29, 2008:<br /></strong>A total of 1471 tons (72 truckloads) of humanitarian aid were delivered to the Gaza Strip via the Sufa crossing.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial">Nahal Oz: 1,080,000 liters of fuel and 242 tons of cooking gas<br />Erez crossing: 6 medical evacuations.<br />Kerem Shalom and Karni crossings were closed.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 27, 2008:<br /></strong>Twenty-six people - patients and their escorts - crossed into Israel via the Erez crossing for medical treatment.<br /><br />The rest of the crossings were closed on August&nbsp; 26-27 by order of the Minister of Defense&nbsp;due to the launching of&nbsp;two rockets at Israel&nbsp;from the Gaza Strip on August 25.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 26, 2008</strong><br />Thirty-six people - patients and their escorts - crossed into Israel via the Erez crossing for medical treatment.<br />The rest of the crossings were closed. </font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 25, 2008:<br /></strong>A total of 5771 tons of goods were delivered at the Kerem Shalom and Karni crossings. Among the goods were fruits and vegetables, meat and dairy products, flour, yeast, oil, sugar, legumes&nbsp;and other food products, tools and materials for essential infrastructures, medicines and medical equipment, agricultural equipment, and cement.<br /><br />Karni: 120 trucks<br />Kerem Shalom: 92 trucks<br />Nahal Oz: 1,058,000 liters of fuel and 337 tons of gas<br />Erez: 34 medical evacuations<br />Sufa crossing was closed.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 22, 2008:<br /></strong>Sufa: 40 trucks<br />Kerem Shalom: 50 trucks<br />Total: 1665 tons<br />Karni crossing was closed.<br />Nahal Oz: 335,000 liters of fuel and 182 tons of gas<br />Erez: 2 medical evacuations</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 20, 2008:</strong><br />Erez crossing: 55 medical evacuations<br />The rest of the crossings were closed, due to a rocket launched towards Israel.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 18, 2008:<br /></strong>Total tons: 1891<br />Sufa: 90 trucks plus one truck of cement<br />Kerem Shalom: 25 trucks<br />Karni: 185 trucks<br />Nahal Oz: 1,045,000 liters of fuel and 172 tons of gas<br />Erez: 102 medical evacuations</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 17, 2008:<br /></strong>Sufa: 90 trucks, 1844 tons<br />Nahal Oz: 866,000 liters of fuel and 172 tons of gas<br />Erez: 38 medical evacuations<br />Karni crossing was closed.</font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 13, 2008:<br /></strong>4916 tons of goods were delivered at Sufa and Karni crossings:<br />Sufa crossing: 83 truckloads<br />Karni crossing: 92 truckloads<br />Nahal Oz: 904,000 liters of diesel fuel, 180 tons of gas<br />Erez crossing: 44 medical evacuations<br /></font></p> <p><font face="Arial"><strong>August 12, 2008<br /></strong>Erez crossing: 42 medical evacuations<br />The rest of the crossings were closed</font></p></span><p><a href=""></a></p>
