---
layout: post
title: Passengers List (Dignity has left Cyprus)
joomla_id: 606
joomla_url: passengers-list-dignity-has-left-cyprus
date: 2008-12-29 11:25:34.000000000 +01:00
---
(UK) Denis Healey, Captain<br />Captain of the Dignity, Denis has been involved with boats for 45 years, beginning with small fishing boats in Portsmouth. He learned to sail while atschool and has been part of the sea ever since. He's a certified yachtmaster and has also worked on heavy marine equipment from yachts to large dredgers. This is his fourth trip to Gaza.<br /><br />(Greece) Giorgios Klontzas, Relief Captain<br />Cpt. Klontzas is an experienced sailor and human rights activist. This will be his fourth trip to Gaza.<br /><br />(Greece) Nikolas Bolos, First Mate<br />Nikolas is a chemical engineer and human rights activist. He has served as a crewmember on several Free Gaza voyages, including the first one in August.<br /><br />(Jordan) Othman Abu Falah<br />Othman is a senior producer with Al-Jazeera Television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.<br /><br />(Australia) Renee Bowyer<br />Renee is a schoolteacher and human rights activist. She will remain in Gaza to do human rights monitoring and reporting.<br /><br />(Ireland) Caoimhe Butterly<br />Caoimhe is a reknowned human rights activist and Gaza Coordinator for the Free Gaza Movement. She will be remaining in Gaza to do human rights monitoring, assist with relief efforts, and work on project development with Free Gaza.<br /><br />(Cyprus) Ekaterini Christodulou<br />Ekaterini is a well-known and respected freelance journalist in Cyprus. She is traveling to Gaza to report on the conflict.<br /><br />(Sudan) Sami El-Haj<br />Sami is a former detainee at Guantanamo Bay, and head of the human rights section at Al-Jazeera Television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.<br /><br />(UK) Dr. David Halpin<br />Dr. Halpin is an experienced orthopaedic surgeon, medical professor, and ship's captain. He has organized humanitarian relief efforts in Gaza on several occasions with the Dove and Dolphin. He is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics.<br /><br />(Germany) Dr. Mohamed Issa<br />Dr. Issa is a pediatric surgeon from Germany. He is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics.<br /><br />(UK/Tunisia) Fathi Jaouadi<br />Fathi is a television producer and human rights activist. He will remain in Gaza to do human rights monitoring and reporting.<br /><br />(USA) Cynthia McKinney<br />Cynthia is a former U.S. Congresswoman from Georgia, and the 2008 Green Party presidential candidate. She is traveling to Gaza to assess the ongoing conflict. <br /><br />(Cyprus) Martha Paisi<br />Martha is a senior research fellow and experienced human rights activist. She is traveling to Gaza to do human rights work and to assist with humanitarian relief efforts. <br /><br />(UK) Karl Penhaul<br />Karl Penhaul is a video correspondent for CNN, based out of Bogotá, Colombia. Appointed to this position in February 2004, he covers breaking news around the world utilizing CNN's new laptop-based 'Digital Newsgathering' system. He is traveling to Gaza to report on the ongoing conflict.<br /><br />(Iraq) Thaer Shaker<br />Thaer is a cameraman with Al-Jazeera television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.<br /><br />(Cyprus) Dr. Elena Theoharous, MP<br />Dr. Theoharous is a surgeon and a Member of the Cypriot Parliament. She is traveling to Gaza to assess the ongoing conflict, assist with humanitarian relief efforts, and volunteer in hospitals. <br /><p><a href=""></a></p>
