---
layout: post
title: Gaza Protests in Britain
joomla_id: 613
joomla_url: gaza-protests-in-britain
date: 2008-12-30 02:34:39.000000000 +01:00
---
<strong>Protests in Britain: those arranged over the next few days. Note: additional local protests are being arranged every day. See </strong><a href="http://www.palestinecampaign.org/" target="_blank"><strong>www.palestinecampaign.org</strong></a><strong> for up to date information. <br /></strong>&nbsp;<br /><strong>LONDON</strong><br />Tuesday 30 December, 2 - 4pm&nbsp;outside Israeli Embassy, Kensington High Street, London, W4.&nbsp; Nearest tube Kensingston High Street (turn right out of tube station and walk along the main road.<br />Wednesday 31 December, 2 - 4pm&nbsp;outside Israeli Embassy<br />Thursday 1 January 2 - 4pm&nbsp;outside Israeli Embassy<br />Friday 2 January 2 - 4 pm.&nbsp; Outside the Egyptian Embassy, . 26 South Street, London, W1K 1DW.&nbsp; Call for Egypt to open the border immediately.<br />SATURDAY 3 JANUARY.&nbsp; DEMONSTRATION AND RALLY. Assemble 2pm Parliament Square, W1.&nbsp; Nearest tube Westminster <br /><strong>GLASGOW</strong><br />Saturday 3 January 12 noon.&nbsp; Outside Lloyds TSB St Vincent Street then assemble for demo at Blytheswood Square 2pm<br /><strong>EDINBURGH</strong><br />Saturday 3 January 12 noon.&nbsp; Foot of the Mound, Princes Street<br /><strong>BRISTOL</strong><br />Centre, opposite the Hippodrome,&nbsp;Tuesday - Friday 5.00 - 6.00 and Saturday 3.00 - 4.00.<br /><strong>CARDIFF</strong><br />Tuesday 30 December 12 to 1pm.&nbsp; outside Cardiff Market/ St John's Church, the Hayes<br />Wednesday 31 December New Year Vigil.&nbsp; Nye Bevan Statue, Queen Street<br /><strong>NOTTINGHAM</strong><br />Tuesday 30 December 12 noon, Market Square<br /><strong>SOUTHAMPTON</strong><br />Tuesday 30 December 12 to 2pm, West Quay Entrance, High Street<br /><strong>PORTSMOUTH</strong><br />Saturday 3 January 11am, Guildhall Square<br />Organised by Portsmouth Network for a Just Settlement of the Arab-Israeli Conflict, and Portsmouth Stop the War Coalition<br /><strong>HULL</strong><br />Saturday 3 January, 11am. Queen Victoria Square.<br /><strong>SHEFFIELD</strong><br />Saturday 3rd January. Assemble 12 noon, Sheffield Town Hall steps. <br />&nbsp;<br /><strong>Action alert</strong><br />Write to your MP urging them to insist that Prime Minister Gordon Brown acts to ensure:<br /><ul><li>An immediate end to Israel's military assault on Gaza </li><li>An immediate end to the blockade and siege on Gaza </li><li>An end to Israel's violations of international law </li><li>An end to Israeli occupation</li></ul>Boycott Israeli Goods<br />Join the protests<br />&nbsp;<br /><a href="http://www.palestinecampaign.org/" target="_blank">www.palestinecampaign.org</a><br /><p><a href=""></a></p>
