---
layout: post
title: ITALIAN HUMAN RIGHTS MONITOR INJURED BY ISRAELI NAVY OFF GAZA COAST
joomla_id: 445
joomla_url: italian-human-rights-monitor-injured-by-israeli-navy-off-gaza-coast
date: 2008-09-16 17:33:46.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>GAZA STRIP (17 September 2008) - An Italian human rights worker with the<br />Free Gaza Movement and International Solidarity Movement was injured today<br />by the Israeli navy while monitoring human rights abuses against<br />Palestinian fishermen off the coast of the Gaza Strip.<br /><br />Vittorio Arrigoni was hit by flying glass when the Israeli navy used a<br />high-power water cannon against the unarmed boats. The water canon smashed<br />the glass surrounding the steering section of the boat, with shards<br />lacerating Arrigoni's back. He was taken to hospital immediately upon<br />reaching shore, requiring stitches.<br /><br />The Israeli navy has imposed severe restrictions on fishing in Gazan<br />waters, regularly attacking any boats attempting to fish over 3 nautical<br />miles. With international accompaniment, fishermen have been attempting to<br />fish their own waters, outside of Israeli imposed limits.<br /><br />40,000 people in Gaza make a living from the fishing industry, a community<br />that has been decimated both by violent Israeli attacks on unarmed<br />fishermen, as well as through the general blockade of fuel and other<br />needed supplies. According to the Fishing Syndicate in Gaza, fishermen<br />need 40,000<br />litres of fuel and 40,000 litres of natural gas each day to operate<br />throughout the high fishing season.<br /><br />In the last year, over 70 fishermen have been arrested by Israeli forces<br />for fishing in their own waters. At least 14 unarmed fishermen have been<br />killed since 2000.</p><p>To view video of Israeli forces opening fire on unarmed fishing boats (1<br />Sept) see:<br /><a href="http://www.palsolidarity.org/main/2008/09/04/israeli-army-open-fire-of-gazan-fishermen-and-international-activists/" target="_blank">http://www.palsolidarity.org/main/2008/09/04/israeli-army-open-fire-of-gazan-fishermen-and-international-activists/</a></p><p>For More Information, please contact:<br /><br />(Gaza) Vittorio Arrigoni, +972 59 882 6516 / <a href="mailto:guerrillaingaza@gmail.com">guerrillaingaza@gmail.com</a><br />(Gaza) Donna Wallach, +972 59 883 6420 / <a href="mailto:cats4jazz@gmail.com">cats4jazz@gmail.com</a></p><p><a href=""></a></p>
