---
layout: post
title: Report on Al-Faraheen Abasan Al-Kabeera
joomla_id: 471
joomla_url: report-on-al-faraheen-abasan-al-kabeera
date: 2008-10-25 08:54:27.000000000 +02:00
---
This is a compilation report of various times ISM Gaza Strip<br />volunteers have spent with farmers in Al-Faraheen Abasan Al-Kabeera,<br />near Khan Younis, Gaza Strip, Palestine<br /><br />There is a &quot;Buffer Zone&quot;, declared by the Israeli occupation force<br />army, along the entire eastern &quot;border&quot; of the Gaza Strip. Entire<br />farms within 300 to 500 meters distance inside this &quot;Buffer Zone&quot; have<br />been destroyed by Israeli occupation force soldiers in the past few<br />years, since 2005. On 27th and 28th April and 1st May 2008 the Israeli<br />occupation force soldiers invaded Al-Faraheen Abasan Al-Kabeera and<br />bulldozed many farms and demolished some houses. During these<br />incursions all the trees, crops, irrigation pipes, and hot houses were<br />bulldozed into the ground. Rich agricultural farm land turned into<br />desert. Olive trees decades old, citrus trees, date trees and many<br />crops of tomatoes, eggplant, chili peppers, green peppers, okra,<br />carrots, lettuce, etc. providing livelihood and food for the families<br />of the Gaza Strip gone. In addition, chicken farms and herds of sheep<br />and other animals were killed by the soldiers too. The destruction of<br />these farms has made many families totally dependent on food aid and<br />has turned the farmers penniless. Most if not all of the farmers<br />cannot access their land and they can't graze their herds, but must<br />feed them grains, which is not suitable food source for animals that<br />should be grazing. The farmers will be shot at if not shot and killed<br />if they attempt to just go to their land.<br /><br />Some ISM volunteers have spent time with one family living in<br />Al-Faraheen Abasan Al-Kabeera. They usually arrive during the day to<br />establish an international presence and stay the night too. They are<br />there as witnesses to the human rights violations by the Israeli<br />occupation force soldiers. During these times other farmers have<br />approached the volunteers to inform them of their losses inflicted<br />upon them by the various invasions of the Israeli soldiers.<br /><br />On Friday 24th October, at 9:00am, in the Al-Faraheen Abasan<br />Al-Kabeera area at Israeli occupation force soldiers shot at one woman<br />and two men who were working on their farm outside of the &quot;Buffer<br />Zone&quot;, they were more than 300 meters from the border fence. Then at<br />10:00am a farmer was working his land in the &quot;Buffer Zone&quot;. One jeep<br />drove to the fence marking the &quot;border&quot; that Israel established, a<br />soldier got out and fired two shots, then another five shots. The<br />farmer left the field and the work he was doing and went back to his<br />house. He waited twenty minutes and then came out of his house to<br />return to work his land. This time the soldier in the one jeep fired<br />many shots. The farmer stopped working his land for the day and went<br />back home. Later on, another jeep drove to the fence northeast of the<br />previous location, and fired lots of shots, maybe 50. Why would<br />soldiers shoot into an agricultural field while farmers work their<br />land? Why would soldiers shoot 50 shots into an agricultural field<br />while nobody is there?<p><a href=""></a></p>
