---
layout: post
title: URGENT! Israeli Navy Attacking Civilian Mercy Ship! TAKE ACTION IMMEDIATELY!
joomla_id: 607
joomla_url: urgent-israeli-navy-attacking-civilian-mercy-ship-take-action-immediately
date: 2008-12-29 23:38:34.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>The Dignity, a Free Gaza boat on a mission of mercy to besieged Gaza, is being attacked by the Israeli Navy in international waters. The Dignity has been surrounded by at least half-a-dozen Israeli warships. They are firing live ammunition around the Dignity, and one of the warships has rammed the civilian craft causing an unknown amount of damage. Contrary to international maritime law, the Israelis are actively preventing the Dignity from approaching Gaza or finding safe haven in either Egypt or Lebanon. Instead, the Israeli navy is demanding that the Dignity return to Cyprus - despite the fact that the ship does not carry enough fuel to do so. Fortunately, no one aboard the ship has yet been seriously injured. </p><p>There are 15 civilian passengers representing 11 different countries (see below for a complete list). At approximately 5am (UST), well out in international waters, Israeli warships began surrounding the Dignity, threatening the ship. At 6:45am (UST) we were able to establish brief contact with the crew and were told that the ship had been rammed by the Israeli Navy in international waters, and that the Israelis were preventing the ship from finding safe harbor. We heard heavy gunfire in the background before all contact was lost with the Dignity.<br />&nbsp;<br />It is urgent that you TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION! </p><p>URGENT! Israeli Navy Attacking Civilian Mercy Ship! TAKE ACTION IMMEDIATELY!</p><p>The Dignity, a Free Gaza boat on a mission of mercy to besieged Gaza, is being attacked by the Israeli Navy in international waters. The Dignity has been surrounded by at least half-a-dozen Israeli warships. They are firing live ammunition around the Dignity, and one of the warships has rammed the civilian craft causing an unknown amount of damage. Contrary to international maritime law, the Israelis are actively preventing the Dignity from approaching Gaza or finding safe haven in either Egypt or Lebanon. Instead, the Israeli navy is demanding that the Dignity return to Cyprus - despite the fact that the ship does not carry enough fuel to do so. Fortunately, no one aboard the ship has yet been seriously injured. </p><p>There are 15 civilian passengers representing 11 different countries (see below for a complete list). At approximately 5am (UST), well out in international waters, Israeli warships began surrounding the Dignity, threatening the ship. At 6:45am (UST) we were able to establish brief contact with the crew and were told that the ship had been rammed by the Israeli Navy in international waters, and that the Israelis were preventing the ship from finding safe harbor. We heard heavy gunfire in the background before all contact was lost with the Dignity.<br />&nbsp;<br />It is urgent that you TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION!</p><p>CALL the Israeli Government and demand that it immediately STOP attacking the Dignity and endangering the lives of its passengers!</p><p>CALL Mark Regev in the Prime Minister's office at:<br />+972 2670 5354 or +972 5062 3264<br /><a href="mailto:mark.regev@it.pmo.gov.il">mark.regev@it.pmo.gov.il</a></p><p>CALL Shlomo Dror in the Ministry of Defence at:<br />+972 33697 5339 or +972 50629 8148<br /><a href="mailto:mediasar@mod.gov.il">mediasar@mod.gov.il</a></p><p><br />BACKGROUND INFORMATION<br />The Dignity departed from Larnaca Port in Cyprus at 7pm (UST) on Monday 29 December, bound for war-devastated Gaza with a cargo of over 3 tons of desperately needed medical supplies donated by the people of Cyprus. At our request, the ship was searched by Cypriot Port authorities prior to departure, to certify that there was nothing &quot;threatening&quot; aboard - only emergency medical supplies.</p><p>TAKE ACTION IMMEDIATELY TO STOP THE ISRAELI NAVY FROM ENDANGERING THE DIGNITY AND ITS PASSENGERS!</p><p>Civilians aboard the Dignity being threatened by the Israeli military:</p><p>(UK) Denis Healey, Captain<br />Captain of the Dignity, Denis has been involved with boats for 45 years, beginning with small fishing boats in Portsmouth. He learned to sail while atschool and has been part of the sea ever since. He's a certified yachtmaster and has also worked on heavy marine equipment from yachts to large dredgers. This is his fourth trip to Gaza.</p><p>(Greece) Nikolas Bolos, First Mate<br />Nikolas is a chemical engineer and human rights activist. He has served as a crewmember on several Free Gaza voyages, including the first one in August.</p><p>(Jordan) Othman Abu Falah<br />Othman is a senior producer with Al-Jazeera Television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.</p><p>(Australia) Renee Bowyer<br />Renee is a schoolteacher and human rights activist. She will remain in Gaza to do human rights monitoring and reporting.</p><p>(Ireland) Caoimhe Butterly<br />Caoimhe is a reknowned human rights activist and Gaza Coordinator for the Free Gaza Movement. She will be remaining in Gaza to do human rights monitoring, assist with relief efforts, and work on project development with Free Gaza.</p><p>(Cyprus) Ekaterini Christodulou<br />Ekaterini is a well-known and respected freelance journalist in Cyprus. She is traveling to Gaza to report on the conflict.</p><p>(Sudan) Sami El-Haj<br />Sami is a former detainee at Guantanamo Bay, and head of the human rights section at Al-Jazeera Television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.</p><p>(UK) Dr. David Halpin<br />Dr. Halpin is an experienced orthopaedic surgeon, medical professor, and ship's captain. He has organized humanitarian relief efforts in Gaza on several occasions with the Dove and Dolphin. He is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics.</p><p>(Germany) Dr. Mohamed Issa<br />Dr. Issa is a pediatric surgeon from Germany. He is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics.</p><p>(UK/Tunisia) Fathi Jaouadi<br />Fathi is a television producer and human rights activist. He will remain in Gaza to do human rights monitoring and reporting.</p><p>(USA) Cynthia McKinney<br />Cynthia is a former U.S. Congresswoman from Georgia, and the 2008 Green Party presidential candidate. She is traveling to Gaza to assess the ongoing conflict. </p><p>(Cyprus) Martha Paisi<br />Martha is a senior research fellow and experienced human rights activist. She is traveling to Gaza to do human rights work and to assist with humanitarian relief efforts. </p><p>(UK) Karl Penhaul<br />Karl Penhaul is a video correspondent for CNN, based out of Bogotá, Colombia. Appointed to this position in February 2004, he covers breaking news around the world utilizing CNN's new laptop-based 'Digital Newsgathering' system. He is traveling to Gaza to report on the ongoing conflict.</p><p>(Iraq) Thaer Shaker<br />Thaer is a cameraman with Al-Jazeera television. He will remain in Gaza to report on the ongoing military onslaught.</p><p>(Cyprus) Dr. Elena Theoharous, MP<br />Dr. Theoharous is a surgeon and a Member of the Cypriot Parliament. She is traveling to Gaza to assess the ongoing conflict, assist with humanitarian relief efforts, and volunteer in hospitals. <br />### </p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
