---
layout: post
title: ! 'Dignity Leaves for Gaza: Challenges World to "Stop this Madness!"'
joomla_id: 605
joomla_url: dignity-leaves-for-gaza-challenges-world-to-stop-this-madness
date: 2008-12-29 07:42:29.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>For more information, please contact:<br />(Gaza) Ewa Jasiewicz, +972 598 700 497 / <a href="mailto:freelance@mailworks.org">freelance@mailworks.org</a><br />(Cyprus) Lubna Masarwa +357 99 081 767 / <a href="mailto:lubnna@gmail.com">lubnna@gmail.com</a><br />(U.S.) Greta Berlin, +1 310 422 7242 / <a href="mailto:iristulip@gmail.com">iristulip@gmail.com</a></p><p>(Larnaca, Cyprus 29 December 2008) - There is a time when silence is<br />complicity and inaction is unacceptable. On Saturday, December 27, Israel<br />began Operation &quot;Cast Lead,&quot; a military onslaught against the civilian<br />population of the Gaza Strip that has - so far - massacred more than<br />three-hundred men, women, and children, and seriously injured over a<br />thousand.</p><p>In response to Israeli butchery, the Free Gaza ship, the DIGNITY, will<br />depart Larnaca Port at approximately 5pm (UTC), on Monday, December 29,<br />bound for besieged Gaza. The ship is on an emergency mission carrying in<br />physicians, human rights workers and over three tons of desperately needed<br />medical supplies donated by the people of Cyprus. Coordinating with the<br />Gaza Ministry of Health, the doctors will be immediately posted to<br />overburdened hospitals and clinics upon their arrival.</p><p>We are not asking Israel for &quot;permission&quot; to go, and we will not stop<br />until the DIGNITY lands in Gaza. We are answering urgent calls from<br />hospitals and health care workers in Gaza by taking in three physicians<br />who will stay and work in Gaza for several weeks. We will hold Israel<br />responsible for the safety of our passengers and our cargo of emergency<br />medicine.</p><p>Even before the present Israeli blitzkrieg, Karen Koning Abu Zayd, head of<br />the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), asserted that, &quot;Gaza<br />is on the threshold of becoming the first territory to be intentionally<br />reduced to a state of abject destitution, with the knowledge, acquiescence<br />and - some would say - encouragement of the international community.&quot;</p><p>Ewa Jasiewicz, a Free Gaza organizer living in Gaza, agreed with Abu Zayd,<br />saying: &quot;Where is the United Nations? Where is the Arab League? Where is<br />the outrage against Israeli cruelty and Egyptian complicity? Every<br />hospital in Gaza is already overwhelmed. Israel is committing war crimes<br />here in Gaza, and words of condemnation are no longer enough. The world<br />must act now to stop this madness.&quot;</p><p>The Free Gaza Movement continues to do what the governments of the world<br />will not do - take direct action to defend the health, lives, and dignity<br />of 1.5 million Palestinians under siege in the Gaza Strip.</p><p>This catastrophe is still unfolding, and humanitarian needs in Gaza are<br />quite literally devastating. The world can no longer stay silent as the<br />Palestinian people are deliberately massacred, starved and humiliated. We<br />have to create a new consciousness that turns the practice of human rights<br />from rhetoric into reality. Palestinians have an inalienable right to<br />live, and the undeniable right to a life with dignity.</p><p>The passengers on this Free Gaza emergency delegation include:<br />* International humanitarian and human rights workers from Cyprus,<br />Australia, Ireland, Great Britain, Tunisia, and the United States.<br />* Doctors going to Gaza to volunteer in local hospitals, including Dr.<br />Elena Theoharous, surgeon and Member of Parliament from Cyprus.<br />* Journalists going to Gaza to report on the massacre, including<br />Al-Jazeera reporter Sami al-Haj, a former detainee at Guantanamo Bay.<br />* The Hon. Cynthia McKinney, former U.S. Congresswoman and Green Party<br />presidential candidate.</p><p>###########<br />The Free Gaza Movement, a human rights group, sent two boats to Gaza in<br />August 2008. These were the first international boats to land in the port<br />in 41 years. Since August, four more voyages were successful, taking<br />Parliamentarians, human rights workers, physicians, and other dignitaries<br />to witness the effects of Israel's draconian policies on the civilians of<br />Gaza.<br /><a href="http://www.freegaza.org/">http://www.FreeGaza.org</a><br /></p><p><a href=""></a></p>
