---
layout: post
title: FREE GAZA MOVEMENT ANNOUNCES POSTAL SERVICE TO GAZA
joomla_id: 426
joomla_url: free-gaza-movement-announces-postal-service-to-gaza
date: 2008-09-05 02:58:21.000000000 +02:00
---
In August 2008 the Free Gaza Movement shattered the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip by peacefully sailing from Cyprus to Gaza and back again. It was the first time in over forty years that international ships docked in Gaza Port, and the first time in over sixty years that Palestinians freely entered and exited their own country.<br />&nbsp;<br />On September 22nd the Free Gaza Movement will return to Gaza to demonstrate that the sea lanes between Gaza and the rest of the world have been permanently opened, and we're going to take the mail with us!<br />&nbsp;<br />Currently, all mail sent to Palestinians from abroad must first be delivered to Israel. Mail is regularly blocked by Israel and prevented from being delivered to the people of Gaza. We believe that the mail must go through, so we're going to take it in ourselves.<br />&nbsp;<br />The Free Gaza Movement is announcing two programs for delivering mail to Gaza: Family &amp; Friends, and Letters from the World.<br />&nbsp;<br />FAMILY &amp; FRIENDS PROGRAM<br />If you have family or friends in Gaza and would like to send them a letter, then please place the letter in an unsealed envelope, and address the envelope in both Arabic and English. Place this envelope in a larger envelope and mail it to:<br />&nbsp;<br />Family &amp; Friends Mail to Gaza<br />Free Gaza Movement<br />P.O. Box 5341<br />Beverly Hills, CA 90209-5341<br />USA<br />&nbsp;<br />Please DO NOT send money, checks, packages, or valuable items. We CANNOT accept money, valuables, or packages - only letters.<br />&nbsp;<br />&nbsp;<br />LETTERS FROM THE WORLD PROGRAM<br />If you do not know anyone in Gaza, but would like to get to know someone, we want to help you try and find a pen pal. This program is available to people of all ages and from all places in the world. We would especially like to encourage schools to participate in the Letters from the World Program.<br />&nbsp;<br />Place your letter in an unsealed envelope, and address the envelope to the type of person you would like it to be delivered to (for example: &quot;For an 8-year-old girl,&quot; or &quot;For a male high school student,&quot; &quot;For a teacher,&quot; &quot;For a fishermen,&quot; etc...). Please include your email address if possible. Place the envelope in a larger envelope and mail it to:<br />&nbsp;<br />Letters from the World<br />Free Gaza Movement<br />P.O. Box 5341<br />Beverly Hills, CA 90209-5341<br />USA<p><a href=""></a></p>
