---
layout: post
title: UPDATE FROM GAZA ON FISHERMEN ACCOMPANIMENT THIS PAST SATURDAY
joomla_id: 429
joomla_url: update-from-gaza-on-fishermen-accompaniment-this-past-saturday
date: 2008-09-10 10:07:29.000000000 +02:00
---
On Saturday the 6th of September, human rights workers from the Free Gaza<br />Movement and the International Solidarity Movement again accompanied<br />Palestinian fishermen in Gaza. It was just 09:30 in the morning, and we<br />were only 4 miles out to sea, having barely left Gaza's coastline behind,<br />when the gunboat's heavy machine gun opened up, spraying the wake around<br />our hull with bullets.<br /><br />There was no surprise. We'd just spent the previous 10 minutes watching as<br />this Israeli gunboat harried another vessel from our fishing fleet. It<br />would accelerate into an attack run, only to veer off at the last moment<br />before collision, battering the fishing boat with its wake. It would pull<br />alongside screeching threats and commands to stop over the megaphone.<br />Throughout, its machine barked menacingly, peppering the air and water<br />around the boat with bullets.<br /><br />When our turn came, our skipper just stuck steadfast to his course,<br />neither slowing down nor speeding up. The crew continues preparing the<br />nets, only pausing briefly to consider the crack of the machine gun and<br />the trajectory of the bullets that were coming their way. This morning<br />they were going to fish.<br /><br />They had to fish. How could they stop and turn back now? Why would they<br />stop when they hadn't even reached the so-called &quot;6 mile limit&quot; (not some<br />agreed perimeter, not some internationally recognized&nbsp; boundary, indeed<br />not even a border which had ever been officially declared or communicated<br />to them, but just an arbitrary and elastic space delineated with the<br />threat of gunfire)? And of course this gunboat was probably just toying<br />with them as others like it had done so often before. These shots were<br />most likely simply warning shots. Not like those which hospitalized 2<br />fishermen 3 days ago. Not like those that killed 14 of their colleagues in<br />the last few years. Probably.<br /><br />As expected, the gunboat got bored, perhaps even embarrassed with its<br />failure to force some sort of&nbsp; response. It withdrew and began slowly<br />patrolling slowly back and forth, as if nothing had happened. This respite<br />was welcome but brief. In the early afternoon another gunboat appeared on<br />the horizon, heading in our direction at full speed. It tore in and out of<br />our fleet again and again, weaving between our boats as if flags in a<br />slalom ski course. A few bursts from its machine gun and it left just as<br />promptly as it appeared.<br /><br />Before long and the light began to fade. All in our fleet were heading<br />back to Gaza City, dragging their nets for the last time that day. We<br />waited eagerly in anticipation of Iftar and the time when we could break<br />our fast. Two of the men had already begun preparing the Ramadan supper,<br />frying fish and prawns from that day's catch. We gazed out across the sea,<br />calculating how long it would be before the low sun finally met the<br />horizon.<br /><br />Suddenly another gunboat appeared with a definite menace apparent in its<br />speed and course. Its cannon roared twice, the shells narrowly missing one<br />of the leading boats, exploding in the water. Tracer bullets then pierced<br />the dim light streaking across the sky just as the gunboat swerved again<br />and went for another target. Its cannon roared a third time, and we tried<br />to film, but the light was now so dim and the boat far away. But it<br />mattered not. The fishermen insisted we stop, for the Ramadan supper was<br />ready and their course was already set.<br /><br />--Andrew Muncie, Free Gaza Movement, Gaza<p><a href=""></a></p>
