---
layout: post
title: ! 'URGENT: Kidnapped by the Israeli Navy'
joomla_id: 517
joomla_url: urgent-kidnapped-by-the-israeli-navy
date: 2008-11-18 06:09:24.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Fifteen Palestinian fishermen along with three internationals have been  kidnapped in Palestinian waters by the Israeli Navy. They were fishing seven  miles off the coast of Deir Al Balah, clearly in Gaza fishing waters and well  within the fishing limit detailed in the Oslo Accords of 1994.<br /><br />The  fishermen and the human right's observers were transferred from 3 separate boats  to the Israeli warships. Other Palestinian fishermen reported that the 3 boats  were seen being taken north by the Israeli Navy.<br /><br />The three internationals  are Andrew Muncie from Scotland, Darlene Wallach from the United States and  Victor Arrigoni from Italy. The U.K., U.S. and Italian embassies in Tel Aviv  have been contacted and know about the abductions.<br /><br />Please call the  Israeli Ministry of Justice at +972 26 46 66 66 and register your outrage over  these illegal actions by the Israeli Navy. Then call the Embassies in Jerusalem  and make sure they know that many of us are appalled by Israel's illegal search  and seizure.<br /><br />Stephen Brown, UK Consulate +972 25 41 41 00 <br />U.S.  Consulate General <span class="globalContentBody">+ 972-2-6227230  <br /></span>Luigi MATTIOLO, Italian Ambassador  <strong>+972&nbsp;3&nbsp;5104004</strong></p><p>CONTACT: <br /> Caoimhe (Gaza) + 972 598 273 960<br />Donna (Gaza)&nbsp; + 972 598 836 420  <br />Fida (Gaza - Arabic) &ndash; + 972 599 681 669<br />ISM Media Office - + 972  2-2971824</p><p>------------------------</p><p>+ ISM Press Release</p><p>For Immediate Release:<br /><br />Gaza City, 10 a.m.- Fourteen Palestinian fishermen  and 3 international<br />Human Rights Observers (HRO&rsquo;s) were surrounded by the  Israeli Navy and<br />taken from their boats 7 miles off the coast of Deir al  Balah, Gaza<br />Strip.<br /><br />The fishermen and the HRO&rsquo;s were transferred from 3  separate boats to<br />the Israeli warships.&nbsp; Other Palestinian fishermen reported  that the 3<br />boats were seen being taken north by the Israeli Navy.<br /><br />The  Human Rights Observers are Andrew Muncie, a Scottish British<br />citizen,  Vittorio Arrigoni, an Italian citizen, and Darlene Wallach,<br />an American  citizen.&nbsp; They have been volunteering with the<br />International Solidarity  Movement (ISM) since they entered Gaza on<br />ships with the first Free Gaza  Movement voyage on the 23rd August<br />2008. All internationals have previous  experience working with the ISM<br />in the West Bank.<br /><br />Fellow activists  have been unable to establish contact with the HRO&rsquo;s<br />or with the fishermen  since they were abducted.<br /><br />Since their arrival, the ISM volunteers have  been regularly<br />accompanying Palestinian fishermen who are regularly attacked  by<br />Israeli navy vessels from as little as 3km from shore. They  have<br />regularly filmed Israeli forces using live ammunition, shells  and<br />water cannons against unarmed fishermen.<br /><br />For videos from these  attacks please contact <a href="#" onclick="popup_imp('/imp/compose.php',800,650,'to=palreports%40gmail.com&thismailbox=INBOX');">palreports@gmail.com</a>  or<br />the ISM Media Office - 02-2971824<br /><br />For more information please  contact:<br />Fida (Gaza - Arabic) &ndash; 0599681669<br />Jenny (Gaza - English) - 059  876 5377<br />ISM Media Office - 02-297-1824 or ISM contacts in the Gaza  Strip<br /><br />When confronted by the Israeli Navy, the boats were 7 nautical  miles<br />from the shore of Deir al Balah, well within the fishing  limit<br />detailed in the Oslo Accords of 1994.<br /><br />With regular claims that  from the Israeli government that it has<br />&lsquo;disengaged&rsquo; from Gaza, these patrols  and attacks from the Israeli<br />navy, regularly occuring from as little as 3  miles from shore,<br />represent a clear signal of the continuation of occupation  of Gazan<br />territory as well as regular breaches of the current  cease-fire.<br /><br />Over 40,000 people in Gaza make a living from the fishing  industry,<br />yet this community has been decimated by Israeli restrictions  on<br />fishing rights and the prevention of fuel from reaching the  Gaza<br />Strip.<br /><br />According to the Fishing Syndicate in Gaza, fishermen need  40,000<br />litres of fuel and 40,000 litres of natural gas each day to  operate<br />throughout the high fishing season.<br /><br />Starting in April each  year, there is a migration of fish from the<br />Nile Delta to Turkish waters  which Palestinian fishermen have<br />traditionally relied upon. Yet Israel limits  fishing 6 miles from the<br />Gaza shore and regularly attacks those who venture  further than 3<br />miles - over 70 fishermen were arrested last year by the  Israeli<br />forces. The large schools that form the migration are usually found  10<br />miles from shore. The average catch of fish was over 3000 tons a  year<br />in the 1990&rsquo;s, now it is around 500 tons directly due to the  Israeli<br />siege of Gaza.<br /><br />Not only this, but the brutal effects of the  siege, the water in which<br />the fishermen of Gaza sail in is now receiving 50  million litres of<br />sewage per day because the people of Gaza have no  alternative.<br />&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
