---
layout: post
title: ISRAELI NAVAL VESSELS FIRING ON UNARMED FISHING BOATS AND HUMAN RIGHTS WORKERS
joomla_id: 422
joomla_url: israeli-naval-vessels-firing-on-unarmed-fishing-boats-and-human-rights-workers
date: 2008-09-01 04:44:45.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>(OFF THE COAST OF GAZA) 1 September 2008 - Israeli Naval vessels are currently firing on unamrmed Palestinian fishing boats and international human rights workers off the coast of the Gaza Strip. The fishing boats are several miles off the coast of Gaza City, in Palestinian territorial waters. As of 11am (4am EST) no one had been injured, but live ammunition is still being fired in the direction of the civilian boats.<br />The unarmed boats went to sea at dawn this morning, in an attempt to fish in their own water. Six international human rights workers from five different countries accompanied the fishermen in the hopes that their presence would deter the Israeli military from firing on the fishermen. In the past the Israeli military has shot and killed unarmed Palestinian fishermen for trying to fish in their own waters.<br />Accompanying the fishermen are:<br />Vittorio Arrigoni, Italy<br />Georgios Karatzas, Greece<br />Adam Qvist, Denmark<br />Andrew Muncie, Scotland<br />Donna Wallach, USA<br />Darlene Wallach, USA</p><p>PLEASE INFORM THE MEDIA IMMEDIATELY, CALL YOUR EMBASSIES IN TEL AVIV, AND CALL THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT. TELL THEM TO STOP FIRING UPON UNARMED FISHERMEN AND UNARMED HUMAN RIGHTS MONITORS.<br />CALL: <br />The Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs<br />Tel. +972 2 530 3111<br />The British Embassy in Tel Aviv<br />+972 3 725 1222&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />The US Embassy in Tel Aviv<br />+972 2 625 5755<br />###&nbsp;&nbsp; </p><p>For more information, please contact:<br />(at sea, off Gaza coast) Vittorio Arrigoni, +972 598 826 516<br />(at sea, off Gaza coast) Donna Wallach, +972598 836 420<br />(Cyprus) Greta Berlin, +357 99 081 767 / <a href="mailto:iristulip@gmail.com">iristulip@gmail.com</a><br />(Cyprus) Osama Qashoo, +357 97 793 595</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
