---
layout: post
title: DC march and rally to End Gaza Siege
joomla_id: 596
joomla_url: dc-march-and-rally-to-end-gaza-siege
date: 2008-12-27 07:47:05.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>National Assoc. of Muslim American Women Announcement<br />Press Release&nbsp; <br />&nbsp;<br />Muslim American Women's organization calls for DC march and rally to End Gaza Siege&nbsp; <br />National Assoc. of Muslim American Women calls all Muslims and people of conscience to march and rally to end the illegal economic siege on the Gaza Strip in Palestine <br />&nbsp;<br />Columbus, Ohio Dec. 24, 2008 <br />&nbsp;<br />The National Association of Muslim American Women (NAMAW) has planned a march and rally for Januray 9, 2009 to call for an immediate end to the illegal economic siege placed upon the Gaza Strip in Palestine by Israel, and enforced by Egypt who controls the Rafah crossing border between Egypt and Palestine.</p><p>For nearly two years the people of Gaza have been subjected to a harsh economic embargo that has left hospitals unable to provide medical care, and that has prevented essential life sustaining supplies and equipment from entering Gaza. To date 271 people have died as the result of the embargo, which the UN has called a war crime, and a crime against humanity. </p><p>The head of the UN Human Rights Division has called for an international boycott and divestment from Israel, in an effort to persuade Israel to open the border crossings into Gaza to allow delivery of food and medicines and machine parts. Israel has also cut of electricity that is needed to operate the Gaza water purification system, and as a result raw sewage has filled the streets and there is very little potable water.</p><p>Along with imposing this cruel embargo upon Gaza, Israel ended a six month truce with Gaza, killing more than 50 Palestinians in one month. The truce was premised partly upon Israel ending the siege, but Israel never opened the crossings long enough to alleviate the suffering it had caused.&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />&nbsp;<br />The National Association of Muslim American Women (NAMAW), in an effort to bring attention to the plight of&nbsp; Gaza's 1.5 million residents, and to demand an immediate end to the siege, will pray, march and rally in Washington DC, January 9, 2009. </p><p>Participants will gather at Lafayette Square at 12:00pm, and march to the Upper Senate Park where they will pray and rally from 2-3:00 pm.</p><p>For more information contact NAMAW: namaw01 at gmail.com, or anisaabdel at gmail.com<br />&nbsp;</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
