---
layout: post
title: Dignity Leaves for Gaza on Emergency Mission of Mercy
joomla_id: 603
joomla_url: dignity-leaves-for-gaza-on-emergency-mission-of-mercy
date: 2008-12-28 11:55:15.000000000 +01:00
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE<br />Sunday 28th December 2008<br /><br />For more information, contact. <br /><br />(Gaza) Ewa Jasiewicz, +970 598 700 497 / <a href="mailto:freelance@mailworks.org">freelance@mailworks.org</a> <br />(Cyprus) Eliza Ernshire, +357 99 081 767/ <a href="mailto:eliza.ernshire@gmail.com">eliza.ernshire@gmail.com</a><br />(U.S.) Ramzi Kysia, +1 703 994 5422/ <a href="mailto:rrkysia@yahoo.com">rrkysia@yahoo.com</a><br />&nbsp;<br />(Larnaca, Cyprus) The Free Gaza movement will hold a press conference at 16:30, Monday, December 29 at the port in Larnaca. The organization is sending in the DIGNITY on an emergency mission of mercy to Gaza loaded with three to four tons of urgently needed medical supplies.<br /><br />On board are four physicians, including Dr. Elena Theoharous, a surgeon and Member of Parliament in Cyprus. Also going are The Hon. Cynthia McKinney, former U.S. Congresswoman and Green Party presidential candidate, and Sami al-Hajj, an Al Jazeera reporter and former detainee at Guantanamo.<br /><br />Dr Khaled from the Shifa hospital ICU in Gaza City told us on Saturday that the majority of cases are critical shrapnel wounds from Israeli gunboats and helicopters, with an approximate 80% who will not survive. <br /><br />The medical supply list includes bandages, splints and rubber gloves, items that any medical community should have access to, but, because of Israel's policies of collective punishment, these supplies are not available.<br /><br />Eliza Ernshire, one of the Free Gaza organizers says, &quot;We have calls for surgeons willing to go into Gaza and work there throughout this crisis. The doctors inside are exhausted and unable to cope with the number of wounded. We will do our best to send in the DIGNITY as often as we can over the next few weeks, bringing in physicians and medical supplies.<br /><br />The media is welcome to come to the port at 16:30 to interview the passengers. <p><a href=""></a></p>
