---
layout: post
title: Occupation? Ochi!! Free Gaza Movement to Sail to Gaza a s Second Time
joomla_id: 476
joomla_url: occupation-ochi-free-gaza-movement-to-sail-to-gaza-a-s-second-time
date: 2008-10-27 14:37:27.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>LARNACA - The Free Gaza Movement will sail to Gaza for the second time this year on the 68th anniversary of Greek and Cypriot defiance to Occupation. </p><p>On October 28, 1940, the Greek General Ioannis Metaxas answered a defiant &quot;ochi&quot; (&quot;no&quot; in Greek) to Italy's request to cross the country en route to Russia. The answer pitted the nations against one another as Italy invaded Cyprus, dragging Greece into the war. Greece and Cyprus celebrate the history of this proud defiance with an annual series of national events, parades and church services.</p><p>On October 28, 2008, the Free Gaza Movement will sail to honor the Palestinians of Gaza who are saying &quot;ochi&quot; today to Israel's brutal blockade and occupation.</p><p>The boat will leave at sunset Tuesday (5:00 pm) with 26 passengers from 12 countries, including Palestine and Israel. On board is Mairead Maguire, the 1976 Nobel Peace Prize winner, Dr. Mustapha Barghouti, a member of the Palestinian Legislative Council, and several other doctors from Europe. Gideon Sprio, an Israeli journalist and long-time activist against the Israeli occupation is also coming.</p><p>For More Information, Please Contact:<br />Greta Berlin (Cyprus) +357 99 081 767 / <a href="mailto:iristulip@gmail.com">iristulip@gmail.com</a><br />Osama Qashoo (Cyprus) +44 (0)78 3338 1660 / <a href="mailto:osamaqashoo@gmail.com">osamaqashoo@gmail.com</a><br />Angela Godfrey Goldstein (Jerusalem)&nbsp; +972 (0)54 736 6393 / <a href="mailto:angela@icahd.org">angela@icahd.org</a> </p><p><a href=""></a></p>
