---
layout: post
title: Urgent Invitation to visit the Afflicted Gaza Strip
joomla_id: 515
joomla_url: urgent-invitation-to-visit-the-afflicted-gaza-strip
date: 2008-11-16 05:41:34.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>To His Excellency<br />Ban Ki Mon<br />United Nations Secretary General</p><p>Dear highly respected Ban Ki Mon, we would like to pass our greetings and regards from the Gaza Strip. We would like to invite you urgently to pay a visit for the Gaza strip. People are slowly dying as UNRWA halted its services and a total power blackout imposed by Israel. Your expected visit to Gaza would show your interest in saving people lives.<br />Power, food, medicine, treatment and&nbsp; all aspects of life vanished from the Gaza strip. The 7 crossings are totally closed with no glimpse of hope to re-open them again. Israel went on more deep flagrant violations of all human laws as she blocked the UNRWA aids into Gaza. <br />Around a million of UNRWA&nbsp; beneficiaries to be exposed to hunger and lack of food. More than 1 million live in deep darkness since 4 days as 80% of Gaza strip out of power.<br />The current situation doesn't await more and time is running out as<br />-Around 80% of Gaza populations live under poverty line. <br />-&nbsp; 1.100.000 peoples depend on humanitarian aids provided by UNRWA, Arab, Islamic and foreign organizations.&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />-Unemployment ratio reached 65% <br />-&nbsp; 60% of Gaza's children suffer from Malnutrition. <br />-About 97% of factories and workshops stopped working, specifically 3900 factories. The industrial zone of Gaza is completely closed. <br />- Individual income 650$ per year and 2 $ a day.. <br />-Freedom of movement from Gaza to the West bank, Jerusalem and outside world is being blocked. <br />- Around 260 people died due to blocking them from either travel for treatment or lack of medicines.&nbsp; <br />-&nbsp; Nearing to 40% of siege victims are from children. <br />-&nbsp; About 150 of medicines sorts are not available in Gaza. <br />-&nbsp; The only medical factory is halted due to shortage of raw materials. <br />-&nbsp; Projects of constructing and developing hospitals, clinics and educational bodies are being suspended! <br />- There are still daily power cuts </p><p>We hope you take urgent actions and stances to stop this obvious genocide. 1.5 million lives under Israeli collective punishment with no&nbsp; fault they committed. </p><p>Independent Palestinian Lawmaker<br />Gamal N. El Khoudary<br />Chairman of Popular Committee Against Siege PCAS</p><p>Contact Info:<br /><a href="http://www.freegaza.ps/" target="_blank">www.freegaza.ps</a><br /><a href="mailto:freegaza.ps@gmail.com">freegaza.ps@gmail.com</a><br />Tel.: 00972599466166&nbsp; <br />Fax: 00972 8 2826222 </p><p><a href=""></a></p>
