---
layout: post
title: On Board Bulletin, from the FreeGaza
joomla_id: 349
joomla_url: on-board-bulletin-from-the-freegaza
date: 2008-08-15 10:50:27.000000000 +02:00
---
(Friday 15th August) Today I was intending to write about about practical developments, here&nbsp; in the waters around the Greek islands. Of setting sail again, of bumpy seas and equally churning stomachs.<br /><p>(Friday 15th August) Today I was intending to write about about practical developments, here&nbsp; in the waters around the Greek islands. Of setting sail again, of bumpy seas and equally churning stomachs.<br />However, the subject of today's bulletin has changed to that of;&nbsp; psychological terrorism. Over the the past 72 hours almost a dozen aggressive messages have been received by members of the groups both on board the ships and in Cyprus. In Nicosia where twenty human rights campaginers including Hedy Epstein await to board the Freegaza and the Liberty, anonymous callers have been making threats to the general well being of all concerned. <br />Some of these texts, calls and answer messages focus on the ships being 'blown up' or 'detroyed killing all on board.' Unnerving enough. But today I can reveal even more pernicious acts of psychological violence on those&nbsp; both reprorting and supporting this effort to ease the blockade of Gaza by Israel. <br />Since Monday,&nbsp; some Palestinian campaigners, (who I will not name here for obvious reasons), have received phone calls made to their mobiles. In an increasing number of cases these threats are being made to family members of the crew who live in the occupied territories. Imagine for a moment hearing a relative report being told 'you will see your uncle soon if xxx continues this action' named uncle having been shot dead by the IDF&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />Now, it is my turn. Yesterday afternoon, on the 14th of August 2008, an anonymnous young man called my home in France as my daughters played hide and seek in the garden . This stranger spoke to my husband, warning him that 'your wife is in great danger. These ships will be blown up.'&nbsp; My husband asked how it was this person had obtained our private home number. No response was forthcoming, but the illicit threats carried on.&nbsp; <br />Who is behind these phone calls? Who benefits by upsetting the families of those onboard the Freegaza and the Liberty? Who would wish to unsettle journalists aboard as unarmed ships set sail towards the waters around Gaza and almost certain interception by Israeli forces?<br />&nbsp;You decide.<br /><br />I will carry on reporting from the waters around Greece, Cyprus and who knows some day soon, even Gaza.<br />My husband will carry on recording these malicious calls to my home in France.<br /><br />A&nbsp;special congratulations and best wishes to Hedy who turns 84 today, many happy returns to a fabulous, human being.<br /><br />THOUGHT FOR THE DAY<br />Silence is the bullies best friend. And.<br />Lauren Booth<br />Journalist and Broadcaster<br />Mob: 07958 961602</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
