---
layout: post
title: Yes We Can - Standing Up for Justice in the Middle East
joomla_id: 327
joomla_url: yes-we-can-standing-up-for-justice-in-the-middle-east
date: 2008-08-16 05:22:59.000000000 +02:00
---
<em>&quot;Come, my friends / 'Tis not too late to seek a newer world. / Push off, and<br />sitting well in order smite / The sounding furrows; for my purpose holds / To<br />sail beyond the sunset&hellip;&quot;</em><br />--Alfred Lord Tennyson &quot;Ulysses&quot;<br />&nbsp;<br />Limassol, Cyprus - In a few, short days, the Free Gaza Movement, a diverse<br />group of international human rights activists from seventeen different<br />countries, will set sail from Cyprus to Gaza in order to shatter the Israeli<br />blockade of the Gaza Strip. I'm proud to stand with them. Over 170 prominent<br />individuals and organizations have endorsed our efforts, including the Carter<br />Center, former British Cabinet member Claire Short, and Nobel Peace Prize<br />laureates Mairead Maguire and Desmond Tutu.<br /><br />Adam Qvist, a 22 year old student and filmmaker from Copenhagen, Denmark, is<br />one of the human rights workers sailing to Gaza. He explains his participation<br />in the project in this way:<br /><br />&quot;I'm interested in telling narratives and advocating people's existent<br />feelings. The idea of sailing to Gaza is kind of crazy, but it's also very<br />straight-forward. The whole idea of having just one Palestinian who's been<br />forced off their land and who is able to return to Palestine - this is<br />something that could demolish the whole Zionist venture. And it just has to be<br />one person. If one person can do it, then others can do it. This project, this<br />boat, is about giving people the freedom to take responsibility. You<br />shouldn't expect something from others if you can't do it yourself, and<br />this is true both on a very personal but also on a political level.<br /><br />&quot;This mission is an amazing opportunity to have a huge impact on this<br />hard-locked, heart-locked, crisis. I've never been to Gaza, myself, but I<br />know that Gaza is the forgotten little brother of the Middle East, or at least<br />of the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. Everything about this crisis is clearer in<br />Gaza. The Israeli occupation strategy is much clearer in Gaza, because it's<br />not specifically about taking more land. It's mostly about completely<br />destroying a people.&quot;<br /><br />Over two years ago, in an election process advocated by the United States, the<br />party of Hamas was elected to power in Occupied Palestine. In response, Israel<br />and the United States imposed a near total blockade on the people of Gaza in an<br />illegal act of collective punishment.<br /><br />For more than two years, Israel has blocked Gaza's access to tax revenues,<br />humanitarian aid, and even family remittances from Palestinians living abroad.<br />Predictably, Gaza's economy has completely collapsed, and malnutrition rates<br />have skyrocketed. Today, because of the blockade, eighty percent of the people<br />of Gaza are dependent on United Nations' food aid just to be able to eat.<br /><br />This is intolerable.<br /><br />U.S. Presidential candidate Barack Obama often speaks about the &quot;audacity of<br />hope.&quot; But hope can never be a passive emotion. Centuries ago, St. Augustine<br />wrote that Hope has two, beautiful daughters: Anger and Courage. To hope for a<br />better world is to be angry at the injustices that prevent that world from<br />emerging, and it requires the courage to stand up and create newer worlds for<br />ourselves.<br /><br />Tom Nelson, a lawyer from Welches, Oregon, is sailing to Gaza to seek that<br />newer world. According to Tom:<br /><br />&quot;Americans are terribly ignorant of the human effects of what they support. I<br />think this boat is one of the most effective means of raising consciousness -<br />particularly American consciousness - about the problems caused by American<br />foreign policy. Americans have to know the consequences of these policies ...<br />I'm sixty-four years old, my children are grown, and my affairs are in order.<br />I think about Rachel Corrie, and about what Israel may do to us. I know it's<br />risky, but I take a risk when I ride a motorcycle, and I think that if we're<br />really going to change things then somebody has to begin putting something on<br />the line for that change to happen.&quot;<br /><br />Eliza Ernshire is a thirty-two year old schoolteacher from London. Her reasons<br />for sailing to Gaza are much the same:<br /><br />&quot;For years and years - seeing place in the world that were being totally<br />destroyed, and people that were being totally destroyed by other people and<br />governments - I thought there's nothing that I could do. But I realized that<br />we can change things in small ways, and we have a responsibility to do this.<br /><br />&quot;No one is paying attention to what's happening in Gaza. No one is<br />listening to Palestinians. They are slowly being strangulated by Israel, and no<br />one is even listening. I can't sit outside of this and just let it happen &hellip;<br />We as human beings have an obligation to stand up, and I can't be passive<br />about it. You can't stand up in London and just say that you don't agree.<br />We need to find ways to connect people in the Middle East, particularly young<br />people, to people and groups in wealthier countries. Together we can inspire<br />each other, and together we can be much more than we are alone.&quot;<br /><br />Eliza speaks a powerful truth. Politicians and pundits often complain that the<br />conflicts in the Middle East are complex and intractable, but two things are<br />absolutely clear: One is that the use of violence - and, in Israel's case,<br />overwhelming violence - has not helped any side to achieve peace or security.<br />And the other is that our governments, across our entire world, have completely<br />failed to do anything productive to address this crisis.<br /><br />It's time we the people stand up for ourselves against unjust laws, wanton<br />violence, criminal blockades, and the hardness of heart that makes these thing<br />possible. It's time we stand against fear-mongering and war-mongering, and<br />build connections, for ourselves, with our sisters and brothers in the Middle<br />East. Our politicians have long since failed us. Now it's our turn to stand<br />up and seek a newer world for ourselves.<br /><br />---<br />Ramzi Kysia is an Arab-American writer and activist, and a member of the Free<br />Gaza Movement. You can receive regular updates on their efforts to break the<br />siege of Gaza by signing up for their newsletter. If you'd like more<br />information, or if you'd like to donate to their efforts, please visit their<br />website at FreeGaza.org.<p><a href=""></a></p>
