---
layout: post
title: Israeli Navy attacks and wounds Dignity in International Waters
joomla_id: 612
joomla_url: israeli-navy-attacks-and-wounds-dignity-in-international-waters
date: 2008-12-30 02:19:12.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>For more information, please contact: <br />(Gaza) Ewa Jasiewicz, +972 598 700 497 / <a href="mailto:freelance@mailworks.org">freelance@mailworks.org</a></p><p>(Cyprus) Lubna Masarwa +357 99 081 767 / <a href="mailto:lubnna@gmail.com">lubnna@gmail.com</a></p><p>(U.S.) Greta Berlin, +1 310 422 7242 / <a href="mailto:iristulip@gmail.com">iristulip@gmail.com</a></p><p>(Larnaca, Cyprus, 10:00 am) On Tuesday, December 30, at 5 a.m., several Israeli gunboats intercepted the Dignity as she was heading on a mission of mercy to Gaza. One gunboat rammed into the boat on the port bow side, heavily damaging her. The reports from the passengers and journalists on board is that she is taking on water and appears to have engine problems. When attacked, the Dignity was clearly in international waters, 90 miles off the coast of Gaza. </p><p>The gunboats also fired their machine guns into the water in an attempt to stop the mercy ship from getting to Gaza. </p><p>As the boat limps toward Lebanon, passengers have been in contact with the Lebanese government who have said the captain has permission to dock and are willing lend assistance if needed. Cyprus sea rescue has also been in touch, and has offered assistance as well. The Dignity clearly flies the flag of Gibraltar, is piloted by an English captain and has a passenger manifest that includes Representative Cynthia McKinney from the U.S. The attack was filmed by the journalists, and the crew and passengers will report on Israel's crime at sea once they arrive in Lebanon. </p><p>On board the boat are doctors traveling to this impoverished slice of the Mediterranean to provide badly-needed relief at the hospitals there.&nbsp; The crew and passengers were also hoping to take wounded out for treatment, since the hospitals are not coping. In addition, the Dignity was carrying 3 tons of medical supplies at the request of the doctors in Gaza. </p><p>The three physicans on board who were sailing to Gaza are: Dr. Halpin (UK), an experienced orthopaedic surgeon, medical professor, and ship's captain. He has organized humanitarian relief efforts in Gaza on several occasions with the Dove and Dolphin. He is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics. Dr. Mohamed Issa (Germany), a pediatric surgeon from Germany is traveling to Gaza to volunteer in hospitals and clinics. Dr. Elena Theoharous (Cyprus), MP Dr. Theoharous is a surgeon and a Member of the Cypriot Parliament. She is traveling to Gaza to assess the ongoing conflict, assist with humanitarian relief efforts, and volunteer in hospitals. </p><p>Yet Israel thumbs its nose in the face of maritime law by attacking a human rights boat in international waters and has put all of these human rights observers at risk. At no time was the Dignity ever close to Israeli waters. They clearly identified themselves and the Israeli attack was willful and criminal. </p><p>The Dignity is still in international waters, 40 miles off Haifa. Everybody on board is safe at the moment as the boat slowly makes its way to safety in Lebanon.</p><p>#######</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
