---
layout: post
title: The Latest from Freegaza and Liberty, Crete
joomla_id: 310
joomla_url: the-latest-from-freegaza-and-liberty-crete
date: 2008-08-12 09:37:39.000000000 +02:00
---
<p><font face="times new roman,times"><font size="3">Bulletin from Lauren Booth<br />Tuesday 12th August 2008<br /><br />Well here on baking, blissfully breezy Crete it has been a day of high<br />expectation and yes, again, disappointment.<br /><br />&nbsp;I spent my first night on board last night, in water so calm it reminded<br />me of Lake Geneva. Our group had enjoyed a late dinner with sympathetic<br />locals in a communal dwelling&nbsp; in what was once Chania's law court and<br />prison. A touchingly run down setting of past grandeur, with a vegan<br />feast thoughtfully prepared. Music was provided by an elderly man singing<br />in Spanish, accompanied on the guitar by a young man with dreadlocks<br />known only ''citizen of the world'. I finally arrived back on the boat at<br />2am certain I could sleep even standing up (much less lying down on a<br />foam mattress). Chania is a rather lively dock even on Monday nights. The<br />nearest taverna was hosting a family celebration complete with Greek<br />musicians, the clink of moonlit glasses and much enthusiastic chatter.<br />Suffice it to say I decided to find a vacant cabin. These are basic,<br />unless you lived your life trawling for sardines.<br /><br /><br />&nbsp;An hour later the alarm on my mobile phone went- time to take guard of<br />the ships with Jeff Halper, anthropologist and founder of The Israeli<br />Committee Against House Demolitions. The ships are never left vacant; the<br />risk of sabotage being considered too high. Our turn as guardians of the<br />Freegaza and Liberty consisted of patrolling with a torch and&nbsp; talking<br />noisily about subjects I was too tired to remember afterwards. However<br />knowing Jeff I'm certain they were both funny and profound.<br /><br />The early morning meeting saw most sailors bright eyed and eager to sail,<br />making plans for the longest leg of the journey to Gaza; the 3 day odyssey<br />from the legendary isle of Crete to Cyprus. Both ships now have<br />professional captains. Matthew who arrived this morning, fresh from a<br />private tour of the Greek islands, looks very young&nbsp; (I have insisted he<br />grow a beard to look older than seventeen) he assures us all that over<br />three days his face will age. In fact Matthew is in his thirties with a<br />wife and children, and knows the waters between the Greek Islands<br />intimately; the groups are very pleased to welcome him aboard. Having<br />spent the morning studying the charts and the local shipping forecast<br />(weather report) at 11 am Captain Matt (as he shall now be known)<br />announced<br />'Friday night is the perfect time to sail. Before that the journey in<br />these vessels from Crete to Cyprus is not so much dangerous as suicidal.<br /><br />What did we do here in Crete at that announcement? For half an hour nails<br />were chewed, each person went into a private purdah considering personal<br />situations, the financial implications of staying longer, the commitment<br />to those waiting for boats of hope to arrive on their shores. I know that<br />the equally keen volunteers in Nicosia have important business commitments<br />they have already delayed time and again for this mission. The news must<br />have hit them hard.<br /><br />Soon, everyone put the delay aside, deciding how best to use this extra<br />time to prepare. Huwaida and Courtney (please see biogs to find out more<br />about them) are keen to brighten up both ships. Both locals and tourists<br />who stop in front of both, pointing and saying the word &quot;Palestine'&nbsp; are<br />unsure they have found the ships they have either heard of, or read about.<br />To remedy this, plans are afoot to paint the wheel houses in the red and<br />green of the Palestinian flag, interspersed at Huwaida's suggestion with<br />writings by the recently deceased Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish.<br /><br /><br />Practical preparations continue; this delay means funding for the project<br />to break the siege of Gaza needs an urgent boost. Fifty travellers&nbsp; in two<br />locations need to be fed and those in Nicosia need their local<br />accomodation longer than expected. Meanwhile here in Crete, despite the<br />various pressures put upon them, not one single person is leaving the<br />project. How they cope financially with the pressure put upon them, I have<br />no idea. The single principle, the only thought on the minds of those here<br />this afternoon, is that thousands in Gaza are waiting on this small,<br />independant project. It's the people watching the horizon in Gaza that<br />keep everyone going here in Crete.<br /><br />Meanwhile the world waits too to see what happens. Today Correiere Della<br />Sera, a major Italian newspaper read by more than 2 million devoted an<br />entire page of their world news section to the Freegaza movement and the<br />injustice suffered by Palestinians. The US media is the only group<br />noticeable by their absence.<br /><br />Free Gaza have the boats, the crew, and the willpower to challenge<br />Israel's illegal barricade. Now all they need is the weather.<br /><br />Here is a message to the Gazans watching their sea for signs of ships; the<br />Free Gaza movement are on their way. When the winds are with them, nothing<br />else should be able to halt this mission of peace and goodwill.<br /><br />Lauren Booth<br />Journalist</font></font></p><p><a href=""></a></p>
