---
layout: post
title: A Plea for Funds for Legal Support
joomla_id: 523
joomla_url: a-plea-for-funds-for-legal-support
date: 2008-11-20 12:38:51.000000000 +01:00
---
On Tuesday 18th November, the Israeli Navy forcibly abducted 15 unarmed Palestinian fishermen and three International Human Rights Observers from the waters 7 miles off the Gaza coast. Although the fishermen were well within their rights to fish in their own waters, the Israeli Navy boarded and confiscated their boats, and illegally detained all of the civilians in Israel. <br /><br />Under tremendous pressure, the Israeli government, released the 15 fishermen but are so far refusing to return the most precious possessions these men own - their boats. <br /><br />The three Human Rights Observers, Andrew Muncie of Scotland, Darlene Wallach of the U.S., and Vik Arrigoni of Italy are currently in prison awaiting court dates. They are challenging their illegal detention and insisting that Israel release them back to Gaza.<br /><br />The International Solidarity Movement and the Free Gaza Movement are asking for funds to help pay our attorneys;<br /><br />1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; To get the boats released from Israel's grasp, or for them to pursue compensation to the fishermen for their loss;<br />2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; To represent the three internationals in court;<br />3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For representation of the fishermen.<br /><br />If you can help provide funds for these vital causes please consider these options for donation:<br /><br />1. Donating via PayPal on the ISM website (<a target="_blank" href="http://www.palsolidarity.org/main">http://www.palsolidarity.org/main</a>)<br /><br />2. Transferring money directly into the ISM Palestine bank account;<br /><br />ARAB BANK P.L.C<br />RAMALLAH AL_BALAD BR&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />PALESTINE<br />SWIFT CODE; ARABPS22090<br />ACCOUNT #673589<br /><br />3. If you wish to make a tax-deductible donation, please make your checks of $50 or more to 'ISM' and put in the subject line ATTORNEY FEES. Send to:<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <br />NorCalISM<br />405 Vista Heights Rd.<br />El Cerrito, CA 94530<br /><br />When making a donation for these attorney fees please email <a target="_blank" href="mailto:palreports@gmail.com">palreports@gmail.com</a> with the amount being donated and confirmation that the donation is for this purpose.<br /><br />We will make sure this money goes directly to the attorneys representing the Palestinian fishermen and the internationals. <p><a href=""></a></p>
