---
layout: post
title: Dignity Returns with Qatari Dignitaries
joomla_id: 584
joomla_url: dignity-returns-with-qatari-dignitaries
date: 2008-12-21 05:58:51.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>For More Information, please contact:<br />(Gaza) Ewa Jasiewicz, +970 598 700 497 / <a href="mailto:freelance@mailworks.org">freelance@mailworks.org</a><br />(Gaza) Huwaida Arraf, +970 599 130 426 / <a href="mailto:Huwaida.Arraf@gmail.com">Huwaida.Arraf@gmail.com</a><br />(Cyprus) Greta Berlin, +357 99 081 767 / <a href="mailto:Iristulip@gmail.com">Iristulip@gmail.com</a></p><p>(Gaza Port, Gaza, 21 December 2008) At ll:00 am on Tuesday, December 22, the DIGNITY will pull into the port of Larnaca carrying several Palestinians out of Gaza as well as the two envoys from the Qatari charity.</p><p>Alaze Al-Qahtani and Talal Al-Qutaibi of the Eid Charity from Qatar were on a two-day mission to Gaza to determine how their charity can work with their Palestinian colleagues to improve the lives of the beleaguered population. </p><p>While in Gaza, Talal Al-Qutaibi said, &quot;We are calling on all Qatari people to join forces to break this terrible siege on Gaza. We also call for a general mass mobilization to break the siege.&nbsp; And we very much want to bring a ship of supplies in and will be working hard to arrange this voyage soon. &quot;</p><p>When the Dignity entered the waters of Gaza, it was not stopped at sea and was never searched by the Israeli Navy. According to Neta Golan, one of the Israelis on board, &quot;They contacted us by radio and asked us to turn back, OR they would board and take off the two Israelis on board. We refused and said we were going to Gaza. The Israeli Navy did nothing.&quot; </p><p>We expect that the Israeli Navy will do nothing on our return as well. </p><p>Also traveling from Gaza are four Palestinians who have been denied their right to leave, even though they have citizenship from other countries. They hope to rejoin family members they have not seen for years. </p><p>###########<br />The Free Gaza Movement, a human rights group, sent two boats to Gaza in August 2008. These were the first international boats to land in the port in 41 years. Since August, four more voyages were successful, taking Parliamentarians, human rights workers, and other dignitaries to witness the effects of Israel's draconian policies on the civilians of Gaza.</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
