---
layout: post
title: ! '''Free Gaza'' Ship to Break Through Israeli Blockade for the Fourth Time'
joomla_id: 530
joomla_url: free-gaza-ship-to-break-through-israeli-blockade-for-the-fourth-time
date: 2008-12-08 11:00:33.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>For More Information, please contact:<br />(Gaza) Caoimhe Butterly, +972 598 273 960<br />(Cyprus/Gaza) Lubna Masarwa, +972 505 633 044<br />(Cyprus) Ramzi Kysia , +357 99 081 767</p><p>(LARNACA, 8 December 2008) - The Free Gaza Movement announced today that<br />it would send a delegation from Cyprus to Gaza aboard their<br />blockade-busting ship, the Dignity, at 11pm, Monday, 8 December. The Free<br />Gaza Movement has successfully challenged the siege on three previous<br />occasions this year, landing missions in Gaza in August, October, and<br />November. Free Gaza ships are the first to dock in Gaza Port in over 41<br />years.</p><p>Israel maintains absolute control over Gaza's borders and airspace, and<br />has imposed an increasingly brutal blockade on its 1.5 million civilians<br />for over two years, drastically increasing poverty and malnutrition rates.<br />&nbsp;Over 700 students are currently trapped in Gaza, while Israel denies<br />their right to attend universities abroad.</p><p>In a statement released by Drs. Jonathan Rosenhead Mike Cushman, of the<br />London School of Economics, the academics stated that they were pleased to<br />be traveling to Gaza aboard the Dignity, and that, &quot;This siege is an<br />affront to any idea of academic freedom or human rights. We, working for a<br />British university, have the freedom to teach and study, this must be a<br />universal right, not at the discretion of an occupying power. How can<br />anyone justify preventing young people from fulfilling their potential and<br />learning how to serve their community more fully?&quot;</p><p>In addition to the British academics, this fourth voyage will include a<br />British surgeon traveling to Gaza to volunteer in local hospitals for the<br />next several weeks, as well as international human rights workers and<br />journalists. The ship will also be carrying in one ton of medical supplies<br />and high-protein baby formula. In recent days, Israel has forcibly<br />intervened to prevent other such missions from reaching Gaza.</p><p>Lubna Masarwa, one of the Free Gaza organizers, stated that, &quot;Gaza doesn't<br />need charity. What Gaza needs is sustained political action aimed at<br />overcoming this vicious siege. We have no intention of turning around, and<br />so we're confident that we will reach Gaza. We are unarmed civilians<br />carrying desperately needed supplies to other unarmed civilians. It would<br />be obscene for Israel to use violence to stop us.&quot;</p><p>The passengers on board the Dignity this Monday will include:</p><p>. British academics on a fact-finding mission to document the devastating<br />affects Israel's siege has had on the educational sector in Gaza<br />. A British surgeon traveling to Gaza to volunteer in local hospitals for<br />the next several weeks<br />. A Palestinian man who has been denied the right to return to his family<br />in Gaza<br />. International human rights workers<br />. International journalists from Al-Jazeera TV and McClatchy Newspapers</p><p>###</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
