---
layout: post
title: Press Conference on Thursday / Passengers List
joomla_id: 450
joomla_url: press-conference-on-thursday-passengers-list
date: 2008-09-23 11:38:34.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>On Thursday, September 25 at 10:00 am, the Free Gaza Movement will hold a press conference at the commercial port in Larnaca. Passengers are listed below.<br />&nbsp;<br />They will be leaving immediately after the press conference. Come and see the SS HOPE, meet with the passengers and hear about this second trip. Doctors and lawyers are going to Gaza at the request of the people of Gaza to assess the medical tragedy there and to talk to the people. We are also delivering&nbsp;six cubic meters of badly-needed medical supplies for the children of Gaza.</p><p><strong>Passengers of 2nd Free Gaza Voyage</strong>:</p><p>- Al Jabar, Ali (Qatar) Al-Jazeera<br />- Alshubashi, Mohammed (Germany/Palestine) Physician, Neuro-surgeon<br />- Abourashed, Amin (Holland) Human Rights <br />- Arraf, Huwaida (Palestine/US) NVDA/Int., Human Rights, Int. Law Spokesperson FGM<br />- Barghouti, Mustafa (Palestine) President Mubadara Party, MP<br />- Boulous, Nicolas (Greece) Boat Engineer<br />- Butterly, Caiomhe (Ireland) Voices in Wilderness, PSC<br />- Cox, Rod (UK) Pal Solidarity, Chester, UK<br />- Al Hams, Walid (Palestine/Sweden) Physician, Internal Medicine<br />- Ernshire, Eliza (Australia/UK) Human Rights Activist<br />- Fallisi, Joe (Italy) Opera Singer, Composer<br />- Graham, Derek (Ireland) Sailor, Electrician, First Mate<br />- Hamami, Ibrahim (Palestine/UK) Physician, Family Medicine<br />- Klontzas, George (Greece) Boat Captain <br />- Kysia, Ramzi (US/Lebanon) Writer, Organizer, Spokesperson<br />- Maguire, Mairead (Ireland) Peace People/Nobel Peace Prize<br />- Masarwa, Lubna (Palestine '48/Israel) Jerusalem Alt. Info. Center, Al Quds Univ.<br />- McDermott, Theresa (Scotland) Human Rights Activist, was on first trip<br />- Mohammed, Amir (Sudan) Al-Jazeera<br />- Zahalka, Jamal (Israel) Member of Knesset</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
