---
layout: post
title: PRESS RELEASE FROM VITTORIO ARRIGONI
joomla_id: 527
joomla_url: press-release-from-vittorio-arrigoni
date: 2008-11-21 13:43:57.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Manifestly violating every human and civil right and against every international law, I spent the last six hours with Andrew locked in a piggish toilette full of fleas and parasites and without drinking water. This was the treatment we received because we announced a hunger strike in order to ask for the restitution of the fishing boats stolen to Palestinian fishermen offshore Gazan coasts when we were kidnapped by Israeli soldiers.</p><p>They took away the telephones we were given yesterday by our lawyer but, even more shameful and clearly violating international laws, they prevented us from getting in touch with our lawyers and with our consulates even though Andrew and I asked for it tenaciously many times. </p><p>In order to report these regrettable events I had to stop my hunger strike so that I could have back my telephone and pass on this reporting. Based on what I could hear before they separated us, Andrew will keep staying in that cell (absolutely non compliant with every standard of every convention about detention and human rights) as long as he will continue his hunger strike.</p><p>The detention I lived today and Andrew is still living can be considered a real torture more than a punishment. </p><p>It&rsquo;s more than probable that Darlene, who is continuing her hunger strike, is suffering the same inhuman treatment.</p><p>I&rsquo;m about to report this seriously severe event to the Italian, the Scottish and the American consulates.</p><p>It&rsquo;s important being constantly informed about mental and physical conditions of our friends.</p><p>Tomorrow I will have to turn to urgent medical treatments to cure dozens of bites from insects and parasites which attack me every night leaving my body full of sores.</p><p>&nbsp;Vittorio Arrigoni, kidnapped in an Israeli prison in Ramle.</p><p>21st November 2008, 6 p.m.</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
