---
layout: post
title: Gaza Challenges siege by Songs and Music
joomla_id: 538
joomla_url: gaza-challenges-siege-by-songs-and-music
date: 2008-11-24 17:10:24.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Gaza Challenges siege by Songs and Music, Thursday, November 27<br />Part of Palestinian non-violent resistance, International Palestinian Campaign to end Gaza Siege in PNGO is preparing&nbsp; a music concert&nbsp; on Thursday. The concert is a brand-new way to lift the siege imposed in Gaza strip a year and half ago.</p><p>The concert would be&nbsp; performed by Palestinian youths who are victims of siege. Amongst, the performers there would be young children as well. They will sing in both Arabic and English language in protest of Israeli cruel policy against 1.5 trapped gazans.</p><p>Organizers say&nbsp; that this concert aims at sending a message to the free world that Palestinians seek peace. It is a message to highlight on the great suffering experienced by people and to spot the light on Israeli violations which hit all life aspects in Gaza.</p><p>The concert would include around 7 songs and musical pieces performed by only Palestinians. National songs would be sang and a kind of fun is being planned to be drawn on the faces of depressed and frustrated&nbsp; faces of Gazans.</p><p>Dana, 11, a child who would take part in the concert says, &quot; I want to sing for peace, for my family, siblings and friends. I hope I can have peace and freedom. I don't want more people to die.&quot;</p><p>The concert is organized in partnership with Italian solidarity group &quot;Peace Action&quot; in a symbolic sign to protest the Israeli siege and occupation.&nbsp; A website would be released during the concert and would be a linkage for next concerts.</p><p>International Palestinian Campaign to end Gaza Siege in PNGO is planning sets of actions to end Israeli siege and considers this initiative as the one part only.</p><p>The concert comes&nbsp; up through hard time of flaming siege and violence in Gaza. Israel has completely closed border points and crossings and blocked UNRWA services to for 750.000 civilians.</p><p>&nbsp;It's remarkable that&nbsp; Israeli policy of unlawful collective punishment has always had its serious impact on the lives of the Palestinian civilians. Collective punishment is expressly forbidden under international humanitarian law</p><p><a href=""></a></p>
