---
layout: post
title: Israeli Government says
joomla_id: 559
joomla_url: israeli-government-says
date: 2008-12-08 13:53:33.000000000 +01:00
---
<a href="http://washingtonbureau.typepad.com/jerusalem/" target="_blank">http://washingtonbureau.typepad.com/jerusalem/</a><br /><br />In a conversation with the press last night, Mark Regev, the official<br />spokesperson for Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, made the following<br />statement:<br /><br />&quot;Free Gaza is a cool idea, but free them from what?&quot; said Regev. &quot;If they<br />want to free Gaza they should take out women who fear for their lives,<br />Christians and gays. We want to free Gaza from this terrible Taliban regime.<br />This terrible Taliban regime is oppressing women, Christians and gays.&quot;<br /><br />This is our response:<br /><br />Dear Mr. Regev,<br /><br />Thank you for your recognition of our efforts to break Israel's inhumane<br />and illegal siege of Gaza. We also think that &quot;Free Gaza&quot; is a very cool<br />idea.<br /><br />With respect, Israel's siege is directly preventing all the people of Gaza<br />from accessing clean water, electricity, adequate food supplies, and<br />freedom of movement to seek essential medical care, educational<br />development, as well as from being able to freely visit with family and<br />friends.<br /><br />Israel's siege is indiscriminate, and unjustly affects everyone in Gaza -<br />including, but not limited to, the women, Christians, and gays that you<br />speak of. These denials all stem from your government's policy of<br />collective punishment, in direct violation of international law and basic<br />human dignity - both Israel's and that of the Palestinian people.<br /><br />All of the people of Gaza have reason to fear for their lives due to the<br />Israeli army's reckless use of force, bombing civilian areas, bulldozing<br />homes, shelling civilian areas using flachette shells, and terrorising<br />young and old with the frequent use of sonic booms which have resulted in<br />the permanent deafening of children. The perpetual threat of a ground<br />invasion and escalation of aerial bombardment is both an immediate and<br />continuing threat, as well as an ongoing form of psychological torture.<br />The humiliation of those trying to exit Gaza for medical treatment, the<br />visitation of loved ones and for the right to pursue education also<br />creates the fear of never being able to develop, to learn, to survive, to<br />live, and to love.<br /><br />We will be leaving Cyprus this evening on our fourth voyage to Gaza, in<br />order to symbolically break Israel's siege, in particular drawing<br />attention to the generation of Palestinians denied the right of self and<br />national realisation and advancement through education - a right not a<br />privilege, for the youth of every country in the world. We also aim to<br />draw attention to the humanitarian catastrophe the siege has caused, and<br />inspire deeper and more sustained political action across the world to end<br />the illegal and inhumane Israeli occupation.<br /><br />Mr. Regev, we urge you and other members of your government to join us in<br />this vital mission, see first hand the brutal affects of Israeli policies<br />on the families of Gaza, and work with us to end Israel's siege of Gaza<br />and the ongoing Occupation of Palestine. We appeal to your humanity and<br />once again echo a point of evident agreement between us: Yes, Free Gaza is<br />a cool idea - now let's put into practice.<br /><br />Sincerely Yours,<br />Ewa Jasiewicz<br />Ramzi Kysia<br />Lubna Masarwa<br />Free Gaza Movement, Cyprus<br /><a href="http://www.freegaza.org/" target="_blank">http://www.FreeGaza.org</a><p><a href=""></a></p>
