---
layout: post
title: We Do Not Seek a Confrontation
joomla_id: 973
joomla_url: confrontation
date: 2009-06-30 06:19:05.000000000 +02:00
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE<br />30 JUNE 2009<br /><br /><strong>"ALL WE WANT IS TO REACH GAZA. WE DO NOT SEEK A CONFRONTATION."</strong><br /><em>Activists aboard Gaza justice boat demand they be allowed to visit their friends & family in besieged Gaza, and deliver their cargo of medical supplies, children's toys, and reconstruction kits. They invite the world to join them.</em><br /><br />(At Sea, 60km off the coast of the Gaza Strip) - Human Rights activists aboard the Free Gaza ship, the SPIRIT OF HUMANITY, today demanded that the Israeli Navy immediately stop threatening them. <br /><br />“This aid is desperately needed by the people of Gaza,” said Mairead Maguire, winner of the Noble Peace Prize and Pacem in Terris Award for her work in Northern Ireland. “President Obama has called upon the Palestinians to abandon violence but Israel is denying them the right to non-violently resist the siege of Gaza.”<br /><br />The unarmed justice ship departed Larnaca Port in Cyprus at 7:30am Monday with its crew of 21 human rights activists, humanitarian workers and journalists from 11 different countries, including Nobel laureate Mairead Maguire and former U.S. Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney. The boat, a converted ferry, hopes to arrive in Gaza Tuesday afternoon, following a grueling 30 hour sea voyage.<br /><br />At 1:30am, Israeli warships surrounded the small civilian boat and threatened to open fire if they did not turn around. When the activists refused to be intimidated, Israeli Occupation Forces began jamming their instrumentation, blocking their GPS, radar, and navigation systems. This jamming was in direct violation of international maritime law, threatening the welfare and safety of the civilian ship.<br /><br />Responding to this intimidation, Congresswoman McKinney declared, "I am extremely angry. We demand that the Israeli government call off their attack dogs. We are unarmed civilians aboard an unarmed boat delivering medical and reconstruction aid to other human beings in Gaza. Why in God's name would Israel want to attack us?"<br /><br />Huwaida Arraf, Chairperson of the Free Gaza movement and delegation co-coordinator for this voyage, said, "All we want is to reach Gaza. We want to visit our friends and deliver our cargo of medical supplies, children's toys, and reconstruction materials. Our ship was searched and received security clearance from the Port Authorities in Cyprus before we departed."<br /><br />Arraf continued, "We do not seek a confrontation. We have traveled from Cypriot waters to international waters and will enter Gazan waters. We've never gone anywhere near Israel. Israel’s closure of Gaza is an act of collective punishment and a blatant violation of international law. We call upon our governments to take action to uphold their obligations under the Fourth Geneva Conventions. If they won’t or until they do, we will act. We will come to Gaza again and again until this brutal siege is broken. We invite the good people of the world to join us."<br /><br />Free Gaza boats are the first international ships in 41 years to sail to the Gaza Strip. Since August 2008, the Free Gaza Movement has organized 8 sea missions, successfully arriving to Gaza on 5 separate occasions. One two earlier occasions, Israeli Occupation Forces used violence to stop the ships, physically ramming and almost sinking the DIGNITY boat in December 2008, and threatening to fire on and kill unarmed passengers in January 2008. The fate of this, the eighth mission to Gaza, is still uncertain. <br />###<br /><br />For more information, please contact: <br />Greta Berlin (English/French) or Caoimhe Butterly (English/Arabic/Spanish) at 00357 99 081 767 / friends@freegaza.org<br />www.FreeGaza.org<br /><strong><br /><span style="color: #ff0000;">WHAT YOU CAN DO!<br /><br />CALL or FAX Major Liebovitz from the Israeli Navy at:<br />Tel + 972 5 781 86248 or +972 3737 7777 or +972 3737 6242<br />Fax +972 3737 6123 or +972 3737 7175<br /><br />CALL Mark Regev in the Prime Minister's office at:<br />Tel +972 2670 5354 or +972 5 0620 3264<br />mark.regev@it.pmo.gov.il<br /><br />CALL Shlomo Dror in the Ministry of Defence at:<br />Tel +972 3697 5339 or +972 50629 8148<br />mediasar@mod.gov.il</span></strong><br />---<br /><br />Free Gaza Movement<br />357 99 081 767<br />www.freegaza.org<br />www.flickr.com/photos/29205195@N02/<br />
