---
layout: post
title: Day 22 of the Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 704
joomla_url: day-22-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-17 18:36:41.000000000 +01:00
---
<p> Informative Report on Gaza War: Death toll 1220, wounded 5350</p>

<p>Dear Editors, Journalists and Friends,<br />This is a new report for the 22nd day of Gaza War and the outcomes<br />of Israeli invasion. For more reporting, breaking news, interviews<br />and accounts in Gaza, you could reach me on my contact info below.<br />Please try both numbers below because there is a big problem in<br />communication resulted in Israeli power cuts.<br />I'm available 24 hours for media coverage in occupied Gaza. You could<br />reach me any time in my house through this: Landline: 0097282802825 or<br />Landline: 0097082802825 or Mob: 00972599306096</p>
<p>PLEASE: FORWARD THIS EMAIL IN SIPPORT OF THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY!</p>
<p>A TOUR AND NEWS REPORT IN THE UNITED NATION COMPOUND IN GAZA:<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliBombsTargetedUnitedNationsInGaza">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliBombsTargetedUnitedNationsInGaza</a> <br />Israeli War: Water Crisis in Gaza<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarWaterCrisisInGaza">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarWaterCrisisInGaza</a>#</p>
<p>Israeli War: Bread Crisis<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarBreadCrisis">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarBreadCrisis</a>#</p>
<p>Israeli War: DESTRUCTION and Killing<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarDESTRUCTIONAndKilling">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/IsraeliWarDESTRUCTIONAndKilling</a>#</p>
<p>A day of War 1<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar2">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar2</a>#</p>
<p>Children playing despite bombings:<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/ChildrenPlayingDespiteBombings">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/ChildrenPlayingDespiteBombings</a>#</p>
<p>A day of War 2<br /><a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar3">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar3</a>#</p>
<p>Mob: 00972599306096<br />Landline: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb</p>
<p><br />Please, make sure you forward this email to those who you feel are<br />interested in this matter.<br />Day 22 of Israeli War On Gaza<br />Daily Feed About Gaza War:<br />1-Israeli air strike hit the eastern part of Gaza City. Many houses<br />were harmed partially.<br />2-Israeli air forces raided on a United Nations' school northern Gaza,<br />town of Bait Lahia. A woman and two children were killed and many<br />wounded. Tens of people came to take the school as a shelter but it<br />was hit!<br />3- Two Palestinians killed in east of Rafah City. Invading tanks<br />destroyed sevetal houses and arrested some residents.<br />4-Three Palestinians killed by Phosphorous bombs fall down in many<br />places in north of Gaza.<br />5- Two Palestinians killed after being injured in Khan yonis and<br />their father was wounded. Here is an email I got from the friends of<br />the family before they know what has happened to them!<br />Family Friend,<br />I am writing to make a request for a good friend from Gaza (Amer<br />Shurrab, UWCAD '01--03, Middlebury College '08.5). He just found out<br />his father and two brothers were attacked while returning home from<br />their farm during the 3-hr ceasefire. One brother (Kassab Shurrab)<br />died, but the father (Mohammed Shurrab -64) and the remaining brother<br />(Ibrahim-17) are now wounded and stranded in an Israeli Defense Force<br />(IDF) controlled area. It's been 16 hours and emergency services are<br />unable to reach them. The ambulances cannot travel there without<br />permission from the IDF, and local aid groups claim that soldiers are<br />blocking their access.</p>
<p>We have spoken with the local Red Cross in Khan Yunis and they have<br />been trying to get the IDF's permission to get to the family, but have<br />not been allowed. What we are asking, is if you could help by using<br />any of your contacts (in the area and/or region, with NGOs, HR<br />groups,media, etc), to bring attention and pressure in order to get<br />permission for the ambulances to save two lives. We are very desperate<br />and trying as many avenues as possible to help aid reach them. If you<br />know even a foot soldier who might be able to push the ball by calling<br />a local commander we would really appreciate any help.</p>
<p>His father and brother are located at:<br />In front of Supermarket Abu Zidan El-Najar<br />El Fukhari (neighbourhood)<br />Khan Yunis (town)<br />Gaza</p>
<p>We truly appreciate any help at this time, thank you for your time.</p>
<p>Salam,<br />Adriana Qubaia +1.781.350.8080 (aqubaia@gmail.com)<br />Amer Shurrab: +1.802.377.7962 (ashurrab@gmail.com)</p>
<p>6- Two Palestinians killed near Sofa crossings in Rafah City southern<br />Gaza Strip.<br />7-Three Palestinians killed in northern Gaza Strip near al karma buildings.<br />8-Heavy bombings mid of Gaza City and clashes erupted in eastern part<br />of Gaza city.<br />9-Heavy bombings artillery shelling western Gaza city and in Al<br />Zaytoin area south east of Gaza.<br />10-Naval gunboats shelled southern Gaza City leaving 4 Palestinian wounded.<br />11-Shells destroyed Taha mosque east of Jabalia.<br />12-Rockets hit a group of Palestinian fighters in Twam area west north<br />of occupied Gaza strip.<br />13-Four Israeli soldiers wounded by Palestinian mortar shells north of Gaza.<br />14-Fire set in several houses in Bait Lahia resulted in many wounded.<br />15-Phosphorus bombs hit many targets at Khan yonis city and many house<br />burned in the area.<br />16- Phosphorus bombs hit many targets at Khan yonis city and many<br />house burned in the area.<br />17-Rockets attack into several farms and houses in Moraj area in Rafah City.<br />18-Three rockets hit Al Barhma area in Rafah City.<br />19-More than 100 bombs, rockets and shells hit the tunnels area in<br />Rafah City. Tens of the houses destroyed and hundreds of persons left<br />their houses.<br />20-Israeli F16s raided by 4 rockets on many spaces inside Egypt and<br />hover in the area.<br />21- Medical sources: victims up to 1220 while wounded up to 5350. A<br />big number of ambulances and medical equipments destroyed in addition<br />to destroying 15 medical centers and sections.<br />22-Palestinian fighters launched 14 projectiles into Israeli settlements.<br />23-Houses destroyed northern Gaza in Israeli bombings.<br />24-Artillary shells bombarded Al Tofah area eastern Gaza City.<br />25-Rockets hit Al Salam quarter in Rafah City and 3 wounded in the place.<br />26-Drones fired a rocket into empty spaces in Shja'ya area.<br />27-Power Crisis still storming most of the Gaza Strip.<br />28-Water is not being accessed by 800 thousands Gazans.<br />29-Bread crisis still storming Gaza leaving 5 bakeries out of 47 working!<br />30-Drones excessively hover on Gaza City, eastern and northern areas.<br />31-Israeli tanks based in Rafah City, Gaza Airport, fired many houses<br />in Shoka area.</p>
<p>Who Is Responsible for Gaza blight?<br />By Dr. Akram Habeeb (my Dad)<br />Writing from the Occupied Gaza Strip</p>
<p>As a Gazzan who is not affiliated to any political party; yet much<br />concerned about what is taking place in my hometown, I meticulously<br />track every piece of news related to the ongoing horrendous carnage<br />which is perpetrated by the Israelis against the innocent civilians in<br />Gaza. I was shocked when key staff of Bush's outgoing Administration<br />hold the Palestinian side in particular responsible for the recent<br />onslaught in Gaza. I was also more devastated when some European<br />officials and even few Arab leaders implicitly hold the same<br />opinion. I am not sure though whether these officials do represent the<br />voice and the good will of their peoples.</p>
<p>The most disturbing statement about the situation in Gaza was made by<br />Dr. Rice, the American Secretary of States, when she declared that it<br />was the Palestinian side who violated the truce and subsequently is<br />responsible for what is happening in Gaza. Such a statement is easy to<br />be made by Ms. Condi whose accomplishments in America's foreign policy<br />were spectacular! She promised that by 2008 the presidents vision of<br />two states would be concretized. It seems though that she succeeded in<br />having two Palestinian cantons, one in Gaza, and the other in the West<br />Bank ! Perhaps Dr. Rice was the most frequent visitor of the Middle<br />East when compared with her predecessors. The normal expectation has<br />been that Ms. Rice would have a deeper understanding of the Middle<br />East crisis in general, and the Palestinian side in particular.</p>
<p>As Palestinians living in Gaza, we expected Ms. Rice to have done<br />some research about the demography of Gaza. We also expected here to<br />have done some investigations about the psyche of the true victims<br />living in Gaza. We are not sure if Dr. Rice knows that more than<br />seventy percent of the Palestinians living in Gaza are Palestinian<br />refugees who had been kicked out of there towns and villages in<br />Palestine . We are not certain if Dr. Rice knows that most of the<br />Israelis who replaced the displaced Palestinians had come from far<br />off land, from diverse countries to establish a state on the land of<br />other people. It seems that Ms. Rice is very happy to see the<br />Palestinians suffer under siege ; she wants them to sing for peace in<br />a big cage called Gaza and if they protest by sending home made<br />rockets, she will hold them responsible for the mess! We hope though<br />that Ms. Clinton, Condi's successor would be the one who would improve<br />the image of America in the Middle East and the Islamic world. We are<br />sure that Ms. Clinton would be more objective and realistic when she<br />deals with the Palestinian Issue.</p>
<p>The Palestinians have also been greatly disconcerted by the<br />statements both President Bush and his deputy, Dick Chini . Both of<br />them gave Israel the green light to kill the innocent civilians in<br />Gaza. The moment they declared that Israel has the right to defend<br />itself and hold the Palestinian side responsible for the what is<br />happening in Gaza, Israel started mercilessly to target civilians.<br />They started to kill complete families, small and extended. They<br />started to target the unarmed civilians who mistakenly thought that<br />UNRWA schools would be safe refuge for them. History will witness that<br />these two men had not done any good for the good Americans who elected<br />them. They have successfully denigrated the image of America and the<br />Americans in the Arab and the Muslim worlds. We in Palestine and in<br />the Muslim world believe that Bush's legacy would be a real burden for<br />his successor, president elect Obamma. However, we strongly believe<br />that Obama's administration would do its best to regain the<br />prestigious image of American in the Arab and the Muslim worlds , we<br />are full of hope that the new administration would play the role of<br />the objective peace broker in the Middle East. Hopefully it would be<br />very real and realistic vision different from Bush's vision !</p>
<p> </p>
<p>Sameh A. Habeeb, B.A.<br />Photojournalist & Peace Activist<br />Humanitarian, Child Relief Worker<br />Gaza Strip, Palestine<br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Tel: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: <a href="http://www.gazatoday.blogspot.com">www.gazatoday.blogspot.com</a> <br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb</p>
 
