---
layout: post
title: ! ' Action Alert: Protests in front of Israeli embassies tomorrow'
joomla_id: 982
joomla_url: -action-alert-protests-in-front-of-israeli-embassies-tomorrow
date: 2009-07-02 19:25:35.000000000 +02:00
---
Press Release<br /> <br /> Thursday 2nd July 2009<br /> <br /> London, 2 July, (ECESG) - The European campaign to end the siege on<br /> Gaza (ECESG) called today for international human rights organizations<br /> and lobbying groups to organize large protests in front of Israeli<br /> embassies across Europe in solidarity with activists of Freegaza<br /> Movement. Activists onboard of the humanitarian boat were kidnapped by<br /> Israeli naval forces while they were sailing in a peaceful mission to<br /> end the siege.<br /> <br /> The call aims at creating factual movements on the ground to release<br /> "the spirit of humanity" activists. Additionally, head of ECESG, Dr.<br /> Arafat Madi contacted EU officials and MPs to urge on moving to<br /> release the activists immediately.<br /> 

<br /> British Baroness, Jenny Tonge, expressed her deep anger and concerns<br /> towards the Israeli doing. She said that, “I shall take up the<br /> matter with the Foreign office.”<br /> <br /> Sinn Féin Justice Spokesperson Aengus Ó Snodaigh TD has described<br /> the Israeli government’s decision to board and hijack a peace boat<br /> on route to Gaza carrying medical aid as contemptible, adding; “The<br /> piracy of the Israeli Navy in boarding the boat in international<br /> waters and towing it towards Israel this is yet another astounding<br /> example of just how beyond reproach this administration believes it<br /> is.”<br /> <br /> The boat was boarded by highly-profiled people like Mairead Maguire,<br /> winner of a Noble Peace Prize and a former U.S. congressperson,<br /> Cynthia McKinney. The vessel was forcibly taken to one of the Israeli<br /> seaports under direct threats from naval boats.<br /> <br /> Maguire, winner of a Noble Peace Prize was taken against her will and<br /> isolated from the rest of the team. The Israeli army cared about<br /> neither her old age nor her position. Two activists were released only<br /> while the rest are in Israeli detention of Ramallah. The exemplary<br /> punishment against the activists is a small glimpse of what's<br /> happening to 12 thousand Palestinians in Israeli jails.<br /> <br /> ECESG is organizing a number of protests in various European<br /> countries to call on releasing the kidnapped peace activists.<br /> <br /> Actions’ Timetable<br /> <br /> Israeli Embassy in Roma, Italy<br /> <br /> Location: Via Michele Mercati, 14<br /> <br /> In front of the Israeli embassy<br /> <br /> 3rd of July 2009<br /> <br /> 12:30 pm<br /> <br /> Embassy of Israel in Copenhagen, Denmark<br /> <br /> Lundevangsvej 4<br /> <br /> 2900 Hellerup<br /> <br /> 12:30 pm<br /> <br /> Israel Embassy, Sweden<br /> <br /> Torstenssonsgatan 4<br /> <br /> Stockholm<br /> <br /> Sweden<br /> <br /> 12:30 pm<br /> <br /> Embassy of Israel<br /> <br /> Chancellery<br /> <br /> Alpenstrasse 32<br /> <br /> P.O.Box<br /> <br /> 3006 Bern<br /> <br /> 12:30 pm<br /> <br /> Israeli Embassy in The Hague, Netherlands<br /> <br /> Embassy of Israel in The Hague, Netherlands<br /> <br /> Ambassade van Israel<br /> <br /> Buitenhof 47<br /> <br /> 2513 AH Den Haag<br /> <br /> 12:30 pm<br />
