---
layout: post
title: Day 19 of the Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 681
joomla_url: day-19-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-14 11:14:56.000000000 +01:00
---
Informative Report on Gaza War: Death toll 1015, wounded 4800<br />

Dear Editors, Journalists and Friends,<br />"Israeli Report: 27 Israelis killed by Palestinian rockets from 2005 till now"<br />Meanwhile, more than a thousand Palestinians killed in 19 days by<br />Israeli deadly rockets!<br /><br />" Israeli MP and Leader: Afghdor Liberman says that "Gaza has to be<br />erased from the Map by Nuclear bombs like what Americans used in<br />Heroshima and Nagazaki."<br /><br />Israeli military operation is still increasingly killing more<br />Palestinians mostly civilians. The victims are in contrary of the<br />announced aim of targeting militants. Around 490 of the victims are<br />children while 160 are women. Israeli Artillery  intensified the<br />shelling scale leaving more victims and destruction.<br />This is a new report for the 19th day of Gaza War and the outcomes of<br />Israeli invasion. For more  reporting, breaking news, interviews and<br />accounts in Gaza, you could reach me on my contact info below. Please<br />try both numbers below because there is a big problem in communication<br />resulted in Israeli power cuts.<br />I'm available 24 hours for media coverage in occupied Gaza. You could<br />reach me any time in my house. welcome to call me on this number in<br />the night: Landline: 0097282802825<br /><br />PLEASE: FORWARD THIS EMAIL IN SIPPORT OF THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY!<br /><br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Landline: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: <a href="mailto:Sam_hab@hotmail.com"><span style="color: #0000ff;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Sam_hab@hotmail.com</span></span></a><br /><a href="mailto:Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com</span></span></a><br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: <a href="http://www.gazatoday.blogspot.com/"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">www.gazatoday.blogspot.com</span></span></a><br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb<br />Please, make sure you forward this email to those who you feel are<br />interested in this matter.<br />Day 19 of Israeli War On Gaza<br />Daily Feed About Gaza War:<br />1-Heavy artillery shelling on the central part of Gaza Strip. The area<br />was showered by tens of shells and a big cloud of strange smoke<br />covered the area.<br />2-Heavy fighting between Palestinian fighters and Israeli soldiers.<br />3-Israeli F16s bombarded the tunnels area in Rafah, many house<br />partially demolished and fire came into many others.<br />4-Rockets destroyed the old City Council of Gaza which is a historic<br />one built in 1910 in the Turkish period.<br />5-Bombings in east of Gaza and news that many killed near Hasanin clan.<br />6-Heavy shelling targeted Al Shikh Ijlin area.<br />7-Medical staff and Paramadics seek to evacuate tens of dead bodies<br />through the occupied strip, so far 4 dead bodied were found in Atatra<br />area northern Gaza.<br />8-Three bodies of dead people still in Johr El Dik area and paramedics<br />unable to bring them out. Between them an old man and young woman.<br />9-Bombings from the naval forces into Al Nusairat area leaving many<br />wounded persons.<br />10-Naval forces and gunboats shelled many targets in Gaza City.<br />11-Seven Palestinians killed in the northern area of Bait Lahia as<br />Israeli drones hit a car and shells rained into houses. Fire set in<br />many house and several people wounded. Two children were among<br />victims,Hanan AL Najar and Shefa' Al Mutwaq.<br />12-Around 10 homemade projectiles fired into Israel leaving no loss nor damage.<br />13-Palestinian snipers shot at 2 Israeli soldiers in Bait Lahia and<br />fire RBG shell into Israeli troops.<br />14-Israeli  Apache helicopters  open its fire on the eastern part of<br />Gaza City and the northern areas as well.<br />15-Three Palestinians killed at Al Shati' Refugee Camp as Israeli<br />army fired some rockets in the area.<br />16-Three rockets fired into Israel from Lebanon.<br />17-People fled their houses in Bir Al Naja area norther Gaza as<br />Israeli shells rain down.<br />18-Two Palestinians killed in Israeli bombings for Al Shoka area south<br />of Gaza Strip city of Rafah.<br />19-Israeli tanks advanced into the outskirts of Rafah, Abu Muamar area<br />with heavy fire from the air force.<br />20-Shells fired at Rafah city from the  occupied air port.<br />21-A shell hit house of Dr. Abed Al Ad, a Hamas member in Toffah area<br />east of Gaza. Many people wounded in the area.<br />22-A fire set in fuel station northern Gaza town of Thwam.<br />23-Tanks shelled Al Zayoun area.<br />24-Around 10 people wounded as Israeli army shelled a house in<br />northern Gaza Strip. One of the wounded lets all his 4 limps and he is<br />in critical situation.<br />25-A rocket  hit an open space near Al Omari mosque in Jablia and no<br />one wounded.<br />26-Two people wounded as Israeli army shelled Al Sultan buildings northern Gaza.<br />27-Two civilians killed, 10 wounded from the residents of Al Shaima'<br />area due to heavy shelling from Israeli tanks northern Gaza strip.<br />28-Tens of Phosphorous bombs hit the houses of civilians in north of Gaza.<br />29-More than 5  people wounded in Israeli strike hit Al Nidr street in<br />Jabalia town.<br />30-Two children wounded in the head, a young man and three women<br />injured in Israeli bombing for the house of Salem Al Naor.<br />31-A shell hit house of Bashir Abd Rabu mid of Jabalia.<br />32-One killed and three  others  wounded as Israeli shells hit house<br />of Nahed abu Kmail in central areas of Gaza.<br />33-One Palestinian killed and several wounded  bombings Saftawi street<br />north of Gaza.<br />34-Phosporous bombs burned to death Saed Abu Halima and his three<br />sons! They were only burnt skeletons.<br />35-Heavy clashes between Palestinian fihters in east and north of Gaza Strip.<br />36-Three Palestinians killed as Israeli army shelled them at Al<br />Zaytoun quarter. Several other wounded and they are all civilians.<br />37-Israeli air force launched air strike on a car western Gaza City<br />and no news about victims.<br />38-Phosphrous bombs burned the house of Ashor family. One of the<br />family members was killed while having his launch.<br />39-Israeli air force targets a cemetery of dead people destroying<br />tombs. Many corps and bones threw out in the place.<br />40-A group of Arab and French doctors arrived to Gaza to help in<br />saving lives of many wounded people.<br />41-Rockets hit many fields and empty space in Rafah City.<br />42-Phospoerous bombs hit many houses in Zaytoun quarter.<br />43-Medical staff finds a body for Samir Rashi who was executed by<br />Israeli soldiers 10 days ago.<br />44-Hamas Radio: Our fighters are seizing five Israeli soldiers in one<br />house and firing at them!<br />45-Another car hit by Israeli bombs and 3 wounded in Al Zaytoun quarter.<br />46-Air strike destroyed a house in Al Nafaq street and many people<br />wounded mid of Gaza City.<br />47-Air strike on al Maqousi buildings left 2 people killed and sveral<br />wounded. Fire set in many flats and people are trapped in the house.<br /><br />Sameh A. Habeeb, B.A.<br />Photojournalist & Peace Activist<br />Humanitarian, Child Relief Worker<br />Gaza Strip, Palestine<br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Tel: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: <a href="mailto:Sam_hab@hotmail.com"><span style="color: #0000ff;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Sam_hab@hotmail.com</span></span></a><br /><a href="mailto:Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com</span></span></a><br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: <a href="http://www.gazatoday.blogspot.com/"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">www.gazatoday.blogspot.com</span></span></a><br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb<br /><br /><br /><br />
