---
layout: post
title: Official Notification of Intent to Enter
joomla_id: 949
joomla_url: notification-23-june
date: 2009-06-23 20:21:08.000000000 +02:00
---
June 24, 2009<br /><br />To: The Israeli Ministry of Defense, Fax: 972-3-697-6717<br />To: The Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Fax: 972-2-5303367<br />From: The Free Gaza Movement<br /><br />This letter serves as a formal notification to you, as the Occupying Power and belligerent force in the Gaza Strip, that on Thursday, June 25, 2009 we are navigating the motor vessel Spirit of Humanity, and the motor vessel Free Gaza from the Port of Larnaca to the port of Gaza City.  Our vessels will be flying the Greek flags, and, as such, fall under the jurisdiction Greece.<br /><br />We will be sailing from Cypriot waters into international waters, then directly into the territorial waters of the Gaza Strip without entering or nearing Israeli territorial waters. <br /><br />We will be carrying medical supplies in sealed boxes, as well as crayons, coloring books and toys for children, cleared by customs at the Larnaca International Airport and the Port of Larnaca. We will also be carrying 300 bags of cement delivered directly from the supplier to the Port of Larnaca. There will be passengers and crew on board from 14 different countries. Our boats and cargo will have received security clearance from the Port Authorities in Cyprus before we depart. <br /><br />As it will be confirmed that neither we, the cargo, any of the boats’ contents, nor the boats themselves constitute any threat to the security of Israel or its armed forces, we do not expect any interference with our voyage by Israel's authorities.<br /><br />On Tuesday, December 30, an Israeli Navy vessel violently, and without warning, attacked our motor vessel Dignity, disabling the vessel and endangering the lives of the 16 civilians on board.  This notice serves as clear notification to you of our approach. Any attack on the motor vessels, Spirit of Humanity and/or Free Gaza will be premeditated and any harm inflicted on the people on board will be considered the result of a deliberate attack on unarmed civilians.<br /><br />A copy of this notification has been sent to the embassies of the civilians who will be on board.<br /><br />For More Information, Please Contact: Greta Berlin, +357 96 471 263 or Ramzi Kysia, +357 99 081 767<br />www.FreeGaza.org<br />###
