---
layout: post
title: Day 7 of Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 634
joomla_url: day-7-of-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-02 14:30:38.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Death toll 435, injured 2300, disastrous humanitarian situation</p><p>Gaza Strip,2, January, 2oo9-&nbsp; For the 7th day in consequence, Israeli military machine pursue the suffocating air raids and shelling through the Gaza Strip. Today's bombings claimed lives of more Palestinian civilians while no militants recorded to be killed. Seven Palestinians killed today mostly children in the heavy ongoing raids.</p><p>Dramatically the number of victims still rise to reach&nbsp; 435 while wounded rise up to 2300 persons.&nbsp;&nbsp; The health conditions in Al shifa' hospital still direful while not much humanitarian aids entering Gaza Strip neither through Egypt nor Israel.</p><p>The humanitarian status still the same while the rage of it EXACERBATES due to ongoing War. Basics of life still not available but with limited quantities like fuel, benzene, gasoline, flour, wheat, sugar, rice and bread.&nbsp; Add to that, continued power cuts up to 20 hours during the cold weather of winter. </p><p>United Nations' OCHA said that Gaza is being exposed to the heaviest war actions ever. Meantime, many protests across all EU countries, USA, Australia, Arab countries and Asian are taking place. A considerable mainstream I is being automatically formed&nbsp; rejecting the recent Israeli deadly War against Gaza population.</p><p>Main Israeli Military Actions in Gaza:<br />1- Three Palestinians killed in an Israeli air raid east of Khan Yonis City. The victims are children from Al Astal family.<br />2-Israeli army targets the borders with Egypt, destroyed more tunnels for food smuggling. <br />3-Five people injured in Israeli rocket targeted house of Musa abu Musa in Khan Yonis City. The 2-floor-house totally destroyed while some other homes around partially damaged.<br />4-A house for DaBabish family bombed to rubbels and 7 people wounded including an Ambulance driver.<br />5-Palestinian child aged 15 killed in al shijaya area due to Israeli rocket hit his area.<br />5- A house of four floors for Aqil family bombed by Israeli air force in Al Nusairat town mid of Gaza Strip.<br />6-A house hit in Rafah City and 2 floors destroyed leaving 2 Palestinians injured.<br />7-Airforce targets the Gaza sole airport with many heavy rockets of F16s. Medical reports say one Palestinian injured.<br />8-Intensive bombings from Israeli Naval forces on many targets in Gaza shore.<br />9-Israeli air force bombed to rubbles the western side of Gaza Valley destroying a car<br />10 - Fadi Shebat, 10, killed in Israeli&nbsp; tanks shelling at Bet Hanoun northern occupied Gaza Strip.<br />11-A 23-year-old girl killed in Israeli bombings in Juhr El dik town&nbsp; mid of Gaza. Five injured.<br />13-Israeli artillery&nbsp; hit the eastern areas of Gaza City by 7 shells at least.<br />14-A bomb turned Al sousi mosque to rubbles mid of Gaza City.<br />15-Israeli Naval forces destroyed house of Abd Al Salam Abu Midain off Gaza shore.<br />16-A Palestinian killed in Dair Al Balah city, Awad Musbih, <br />17-Maan: One dead several injured as Israeli missiles land on home in Jabaliya, in the northern Gaza Strip. 6 year-old Christine At-Turk died from her wounds sustained during the strike on Friday afternoon. <br />18- Foad Al-Matuq was killed and four were injured after Israeli shells hit an empty home in the Jabalia refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip. <br />19 Missile strikes in residential areas across the Strip were reported. <br />20- Two homes destroyed in Rafah were&nbsp; leaving 7 people wounded. Many houses were affected. <br />21-Isareli army targets 2 training centers for Palestinian factions west of Gaza City.<br />22- Israeli shelling targeted a house in the Tel Al-Hawa neighborhood west of Gaza City. <br />23-Rockets targeted a cemetery eastern Gaza Strip, Rafah City. Additionally,&nbsp; more tunnels are destroyed.<br />24-Apachi helocapters raided on a car mid of AL Nusairat refugee camp. Some people killed and other wounded.<br />25 Israeli airforce raided on Kahlifa Mosque in the Jabalia refugee camp injuring four Palestinians.<br />26- Tens of&nbsp; Thousands of birds&nbsp; killed when Israeli fire targeted a farm in Gaza City. <br />27-Neither spare parts nor Gasoline available to operate pumps of fresh water. A great number of Palestinians don't have an easy access for fresh drinking water.<br />28-Palestinian factions retaliate against Israeli air raids in Gaza.&nbsp; Around 10 homemade rockets fired into Israel with no casualties.<br />29-International journalists, peace activists and organizational officers left Gaza after the Israeli notification. <br />30- Israeli authorities ban press from going into Gaza while a big problem of cummnictaion and citizen Journalists are not able to report.<br /></p><p><a href=""></a></p>
