---
layout: post
title: ! 'EU Envoy: "We just want that Gaza looks less like hell than it''s'
joomla_id: 742
joomla_url: eu-envoy-qwe-just-want-that-gaza-looks-less-like-hell-than-its
date: 2009-02-09 20:55:43.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Commentary on Haaretz 03/02/2009, <a href="http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/1061211.html">http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/1061211.html</a><br />(EU envoy: Israel must ease aid restrictions on 'hell-like' Gaza, by Reuters)</p>
<p />

</p>
<p>Following the utterly immoral and illegal position taken by EU leaders, as<br />expressed by the monstrous Benita Ferrero-Waldner not long ago, the current<br />EU Middle East envoy is openly calling for using EU reconstruction money to<br />achieve what Israel failed to reach through its genocidal siege and<br />atrocious war of aggression on Gaza: (a) impose on Gaza (and indeed the West<br />Bank) an illegitimate PA government that represents US interests far more<br />than Palestinian interests (after all, the entire government was<br />hand-selected by an American army general!!), and (b) salvage Israel's image<br />abroad by making Gaza "look less like hell," which would also serve the<br />purpose of assuaging the mounting civil society anger and effective action<br />against Israel and its US-EU-Arab partners in crime.</p>
<p>Whenever the EU and US envoys insist on using the L word (for legitimacy) to<br />describe the Ramallah-based PA, the more Palestinians shrug their shoulders<br />in disgust and disbelief! The PA government in Ramallah by any objective<br />legal standards and according to Palestinian Basic Laws is anything but<br />legitimate! It has no democratic mandate from the Palestinian Legislative<br />Council, as rquired by law. The PA President had a democratic mandate which<br />expired on January 9th. He is no longer the legitimate president of the PA.<br />Hamas's government, though democartically elected, was deposed by Abbas when<br />he was president and had the constitutional power to depose it, regardless<br />of how anti-democratic and politically disastrous that "legal coup d'etat"<br />was.</p>
<p>So, legally speaking, the Palestinians in the occupied territory are left in<br />limbo, with no legally legitimate government to "rule" under occupation (a<br />contradiction in terms to me, but not to most other analysts!). But of the<br />two "illegitimate" governments, in Ramallah and Gaza, certainly the latter<br />has more claim to legitimacy as it had won a perfectly democratic and clean<br />vote -- something the former cannot claim. Also, the former, before Gaza but<br />especially during the Israeli war on Gaza, has increasingly lost any<br />semblance of legitimacy or representation of Palestinian national interests.<br />The Karzai phenomenon is live and well in Ramallah, just as in Baghdad,<br />Beirut, Cairo, Riyadh, Islamabad and elsewhere in the worldwide empire of<br />banana republics -- illegitimate, unelected governments that are kept in<br />power through western largesse and western-imposed, repressive security<br />apparatuses.</p>
<p>The EU's insistence on ignoring its legal obligations to end Israel's<br />impunity, condemn its war crimes and make it pay for the massacre and<br />massive destruction it caused in Gaza (and beyond) can only open the door,<br />wider still, to the impending collapse of the rule of international law and<br />to the ascension of the rule of the Bush-Bin Laden jungle, or total chaos,<br />which Europe, in particular, will most certainly live to regret having<br />contributed to.</p>
<p>Israel has, for all intents and purposes, completed its transformation from<br />a regular rogue state above the law of nations to the "mad dog" that Moshe<br />Dayan had advocated decades ago; it is about time to leash it before it<br />bites everyone in site, even the white man -- or woman -- in the smart suit.</p>
<p>Omar</p>
<p> </p>
