---
layout: post
title: Day 15 of the Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 665
joomla_url: day-15-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-10 22:35:30.000000000 +01:00
---
More civilians killed: Death toll 810, wounded 3400 <br />
<p> </p>
<p />

</p>
<p>Dear Editors, Journalists and Friends,<br />Most of the Gaza Strip plunges into deep darkness since the start of this war. I find several hardships to send out this report due to power problem. Today, a rocket targeted my uncle's house. My house got several splinters and rocket shrapnel. Thanks to God, we all safe but I don't know what will happen next. I live east of Gaza, Toffah area, were artillery shells rained down every single moment.<br />This is a new report for the 15th day of Gaza War and the outcomes of Israeli invasion. For more reporting, breaking news, interviews and accounts in Gaza, you could reach me on my contact info below. Please try both numbers below because there is a big problem in communication resulted in Israeli power cuts.<br />I'm available 24 hours for media coverage in occupied Gaza. You could reach me any time in my house. welcome to call me on this number in the night: Landline: 0097282802825</p>
<p>PLEASE: FORWARD THIS EMAIL IN SIPPORT OF THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY!</p>
<p>Mob: 00972599306096<br />Landline: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb<br /><br />Please, make sure you forward this email to those who you feel are interested in this matter.<br />Day 15 of Israeli War On Gaza <br />By Sameh A. Habeeb, A Photojournalist, Humanitarian & Peace Activist in Gaza Strip.<br />Deadly Outcomes of Israeli Ground Military Operation:<br />1-A Palestinian journalist, Ala' Mortaja, killed in Israeli airstrike targeted his house in Al Zaytoun quarter. His mother was wounded and she is in critical conditions at the moment.<br />2-Israeli F16 targeted with heavy missiles a workshop for Abu jahal <br />3-Israeli F16 targeted Al Mughraqa city council mid of Gaza Strip.<br />4-Israeli F16 targeted many aims in Al Nusairat Refugee Camp.<br />5-Israeli gunboats targeted the shore of Al Nusairat Refugee Camp.<br />6-Israeli artillery shelled many buildings in Al Zahra' City mid of Gaza Strip.<br />7-An artillery shells rained down on Abu saif house in the mid areas of Gaza.<br />8-Seven Palestinians killed I the early hours of day 15 due to bombings and air raids east and north of Gaza.<br />9-More than 10 houses destroyed by Israeli shelling east and north of Gaza.<br />10-Israeli air raids on a military post linked to Hamas south of Gaza Strip in Rafah City.<br />11-Air raids in Hikr area near Dair Al Balah. The raids and bombings targeted many agricultural and open fields.<br />12-Rockets hit parts of Al Norain Buildings central Gaza Strip. <br />13-Bombings taerget Block 5 in Al Nusairat camp and many people arrived to the hospitals with various wounds.<br />14-Heavy shelling from the Israeli artillery east of Al Burej and Dair Al Balah City.<br />15-Around 5 journalists killed since the start of Israeli War on Gaza.<br />16-Intensively, Israeli air force of F16s, Apaches and drones fly over the Gaza City and northern areas.<br />17-Fissionable bombs are being uses by Israeli army especially the artillery machines. Doctors approved that in Al Shifa' hospital as many cases arrived with characteristics indicate that such as amputations all over bodies. <br />18-The early hours of Day15 witnessed destruction of many houses forDiab, Yasin, Al Sairhi and Khalifa families in Al Zaytoun quarter. Air forces and artillery participated in the bombings. <br />19-A Palestinian killed in Rafah City as Israeli rocket targeted group of Palestinians near Kairm Abu Salem crossings south of the strip. Six wounded and one of them in critical conditions. The rocket was fired through a drone!<br />20-Two Palestinians wounded in an air strike targeted a civic car west of Gaza City, al Shati' camp. An Israeli drone fired a rocket.<br />21-A Palestinian killed from Abu Al Khair family east of Gaza. Many wounded and the house was destroyed.<br />22-Israeli air raid on Abd Al'al family and destroyed the house west north of Gaza City, al Nasir quarter.<br />23-Israeli missiles targeted house of Abu Wael Al Mgharia central Gaza Strip.<br />24-Heavy bombings in Bait Hanon town and many wounded. Many houses burned after the bombings.<br />25-Israeli army still uses Phosphorus bombs in Gaza.<br />26-Local radio stations broadcasted a set of instructions in protection of strange gases they think Israeli army is using. <br />27-Israeli air force drop thousands of leaflets warning the civilians of a massive escalation sooner. <br />28- Many shells rained down in Abd Rabu area in Bait Hanon. Eight people killed in the bombings.<br />29-Israeli F1s6 targeted a group of civilians including children. Many boys wounded in the bombing.<br />30-Hamas militants fired a rocket into Ashdod area in Israel.<br />31-An artillery shell targeted Al ghalaini house for the second time and no one wounded. <br />32-A medical clinic for Shawa family hit in Gaza City.<br />33-Drastic fighting between Palestinian fighters and Israeli soldiers. Many artillery shells targeted the militants in Shijaya area. <br />34-Artillary shells fired at Dardona family in Jabalia. Medical sources reported that many people killed in the strike.<br />35-Four Palestinians killed near Burj Al Sultan building in Jabalia refugee Camp.<br />36-Five Palestinians killed in artillery shells and several wounded near the house of Ali Al Batish in Jabalia town.<br />37-Around 7 air raids in Rafah City, a house for Abu Ashraf Hunaif was hit. It turned to rubbles due to the bombings.<br />38-A house destroyed southern Rafah crossings.<br />39-Israeli bombings targeted children near their houses northern Gaza Strip.<br />40-Two killed in Al shati' refugee Camp as Israeli army hit a car in west of Gaza strip. <br />41-Several artillery shells hit the eastern part of Gaza City. A shell hit House of Abu Ismail Habeeb (My uncle) miraculously, no one wounded from the extended family which includes around 100 persons.<br />42-Palestinian militants targeted a house taken as a military post by Israeli army east of Gaza in Toffah area.<br />42-Palestinian militants targeted a military post for Israeli army by 7 mortar shells east of Al Maghazi town.<br />43-Victims of today's attacks on Gaza estimated of 30 people all are nearly civilians through Gaza Strip.<br />44-Israeli tanks advanced some meters central of Gaza Strip.<br />45-A Palestinian killed, Osama Nahas, many wounded during Israeli bombings near a mosque in Jabalia town northern Gaza.<br />46-Ahmed Al Amodi, a gasoline seller killed in Sheikh Ridwan area south of Gaza Strip.<br />47-Phosphorous bombs rained down in Al Toffah area east of Gaza.<br />48- A shell targeted a house in Jorn area, north east of Gaza Strip. No casualties were reported then.<br />49-Israeli Gun helicopters<br />50-Islamic Jehad fired six rockets into Israeli settlements. Around 14 wounded in the accident. <br />51-A rocket fired from Israeli air force killed two siblings. They are children less than 10 years from one family. <br />Sameh A. Habeeb, B.A.<br />Photojournalist & Peace Activist<br />Humanitarian, Child Relief Worker<br />Gaza Strip, Palestine<br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Tel: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb</p>
<p> </p>
