---
layout: post
title: ! 'British Witnesses to Operation Cast Lead: Netanyahu and Brown - ending Gaza
  siege not option but obligation'
joomla_id: 1061
joomla_url: british-witnesses-to-operation-cast-lead-netanyahu-and-brown-ending-gaza-siege-not-option-but-obligation
date: 2009-08-24 20:24:55.000000000 +02:00
---
The Free Gaza Movement (UK Chapter):<br /> <br /> International solidarity activists brought to Gaza by Free Gaza's<br /> boats witnessed first hand the destruction and massacres wrought on<br /> the people of Gaza during Operation Cast Lead this January. [1]<br /> <br /> Cast Lead saw over 1400 Palestinians killed, a third of them women and<br /> children, 11,000 homes, over 200 schools and hundreds of businesses<br /> damaged or destroyed. Netanyahu believes this invasion did not go far<br /> enough.<br /> 

<br /> As a former Minister of Finance, Netanyahu has been responsible for<br /> financing military operations that wilfully destroyed property, land<br /> and civilian lives; the expansion of illegal settlements, and the<br /> construction of the ‘Security Barrier’ re-named the ‘Apartheid Wall’<br /> for its’ reinforcement of Bantustans in the West Bank.<br /> <br /> The Free Gaza Movement calls on UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown to<br /> adhere to his legal obligations, on behalf of the UK, as a signatory<br /> to the Geneva Conventions and European Convention on Human Rights, to<br /> enforce international law in relation to Israel's illegal activities.<br /> <br /> This means action to immediately halt the construction of the illegal<br /> apartheid wall, a barrier to peace that steals land and water<br /> resources from the Palestinian population of the west bank.<br /> <br /> This means action to end the illegal and collectively punishing siege of the<br /> Gaza Strip that has blocked essential medical treatment, directly<br /> resulting in the deaths of over 350 people in the past three years.<br /> <br /> This means action to end to the ethnic cleansing of East Jerusalem,<br /> where over 2000 homes have been set for demolition.<br /> <br /> This means action to halt the expansion of new settlements in the West<br /> Bank and dismantling existing ones - all are illegal under international law.<br /> <br /> Taking decisive enforcement action on these violations of international<br /> law is not an option, it is a legal obligation. Demands and positions<br /> must be backed up by decisive action – sanctions – if international<br /> law is not adhered to.<br /> <br /> It is not an option for the British Prime Minister to derogate from<br /> his duties in respect to the international community and the UK<br /> community.<br /> <br /> <strong>Media Contacts</strong><br /> <br /> [1] (All witnesses to Operation Cast Lead) - available for interview<br /> <br /> Jenny Linnell, Free Gaza Movement (UK) 0044 7970 976 911<br /> <br /> Ewa Jasiewicz, Free Gaza Movement (UK) 0044 7749 421 576 (volunteer<br /> with ambulances and witness to white phosophorous bombing of Beit<br /> Lahiya Elementary School)<br /> <br /> Fida Qeshta, International Solidarity Movement co-ordinator for Gaza<br /> (Palestinian Gazan - currently in the UK) 0044 7833 626 178<br /> <br /> Sharyn Lock, Free Gaza (UK Resident) 0044 7881 651 259 (volunteer with<br /> ambulances and witness to tank shelling and bombardment of Al Qds<br /> Hospital with white phosphorous)
<div style="overflow: hidden; position: absolute; left: -10000px; top: 0px; width: 1px; height: 1px;" id="_mcePaste">For Immediate Release:<br /> <br /> Monday August 25th 2009<br /> <br /> <a href="http://www.freegaza.org/" target="_blank">www.freegaza.org</a><br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> Gordon Brown – ending the occupation and siege of Gaza is not an<br /> option, it’s an obligation<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> The Free Gaza Movement (UK Chapter):<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> International solidarity activists brought to Gaza by Free Gaza's<br /> boats witnessed first hand the destruction and massacres wrought on<br /> the people of Gaza during Operation Cast Lead this January. [1]<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> Cast Lead saw over 1400 Palestinians killed, a third of them women and<br /> children, 11,000 homes, over 200 schools and hundreds of businesses<br /> damaged or destroyed. Netanyahu believes this invasion did not go far<br /> enough.<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> As a former Minister of Finance, Netanyahu has been responsible for<br /> financing military operations that wilfully destroyed property, land<br /> and civilian lives; the expansion of illegal settlements, and the<br /> construction of the ‘Security Barrier’ re-named the ‘Apartheid Wall’<br /> for its’ reinforcement of Bantustans in the West Bank.<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> The Free Gaza Movement calls on UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown to<br /> adhere to his legal obligations, on behalf of the UK, as a signatory<br /> to the Geneva Conventions and European Convention on Human Rights, to<br /> enforce international law in relation to Israel's illegal activities.<br /> <br /> This means action to immediately halt the construction of the illegal<br /> apartheid wall, a barrier to peace that steals land and water<br /> resources from the Palestinian population of the west bank.<br /> <br /> This means action to end the illegal and collectively punishing siege of the<br /> Gaza Strip that has blocked essential medical treatment, directly<br /> resulting in the deaths of over 350 people in the past three years.<br /> <br /> This means action to end to the ethnic cleansing of East Jerusalem,<br /> where over 2000 homes have been set for demolition.<br /> <br /> This means action to halt the expansion of new settlements in the West<br /> Bank and dismantling existing ones - all are illegal under international law.<br /> <br /> Taking decisive enforcement action on these violations of international<br /> law is not an option, it is a legal obligation. Demands and positions<br /> must be backed up by decisive action – sanctions – if international<br /> law is not adhered to.<br /> <br /> It is not an option for the British Prime Minister to derogate from<br /> his duties in respect to the international community and the UK<br /> community.<br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> Media Contacts<br /> <br /> [1] (All witnesses to Operation Cast Lead) - available for interview<br /> <br /> Jenny Linnell, Free Gaza Movement (UK) 0044 7970 976 911<br /> <br /> Ewa Jasiewicz, Free Gaza Movement (UK) 0044 7749 421 576 (volunteer<br /> with ambulances and witness to white phosophorous bombing of Beit<br /> Lahiya Elementary School)<br /> <br /> Fida Qeshta, International Solidarity Movement co-ordinator for Gaza<br /> (Palestinian Gazan - currently in the UK) 0044 7833 626 178<br /> <br /> Sharyn Lock, Free Gaza (UK Resident) 0044 7881 651 259 (volunteer with<br /> ambulances and witness to tank shelling and bombardment of Al Qds<br /> Hospital with white phosphorous)</div>
