---
layout: post
title: Day 8 of the Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 636
joomla_url: day-8-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-03 11:19:27.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>Breaking News: 15 Palestinians killed while praying in a mosque north of Gaza Strip. Ten other injured in the strike which turn the mosque to rubbles. One of the killed is a journalist.</p><p>Breaking News: 4 Palestinians killed in Rafah City in Israeli bombings.</p><p>Breaking News: Israel bombing Al Uma University and hundreds of shell rain on all Gaza areas now.</p><p>Breaking News: heavy strikes across Rafah and many houses damaged.</p><p>Breaking News: Israeli tanks advanced some meters from Eretz crossing in the north.</p><p>Breaking News: Shells landed between civilians' houses east of Gaza City, Toffah, shijaya and sha'f areas.<br /></p><p>Day 8 of Israeli War On Gaza</p><p>Death toll 450, injured 2350, disastrous humanitarian situation</p><p>Photos of Israeli Airforce: <a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar3" target="_blank">http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb/GazaWar3</a>#</p><p>By Sameh A. Habeeb, A Photojournalist, Humanitarian &amp; Peace Activist in Gaza Strip.</p><p>Gaza Strip,3, January, 2oo9-&nbsp; In the recent reporting period of this report, Israeli army is using all naval, ground and air forces to attack Gaza. With the early hours&nbsp; of Saturday morning, Israeli army started to shell and launch heavy air strikes against Gaza. Most of the bombings targeted buildings, farming and agricultural fields. The bombings range dramatically increased midday leaving 5 dead and ten other wounded.</p><p>The heavy deadly bombings focused&nbsp; on four areas in Khan Yonis, Gaza and the north cities. The artillery shells engaged in the continued strikes with more new tactics. New shells are used for the first time. Eyewitnesses reported&nbsp; that new shells explode before landing on the targets making more small bombs. The shells are expected to be cluster bombs.</p><p>More Israeli new weapons are used today. Palestinians in Khan Yonis massively called the radio stations and health centers to report on a bad smell goes out from the rockets in Khan Yonis City. People are afraid this kind of weapon is shells enriched with Uranium and nuclear elements.</p><p>In Al Zaytoun area holes estimated of 20 meters dig deep underground due to new heavy rockets. Some of the targeted houses turned rubbles and many people reported to be injured. The ground military operation is expected to start within hours and this is due to heaviy bombings which is a stage Israel uses before she goes on ground.</p><p>United Nations says humanitarian crisis is in Gaza due to the big number of casualties and inability of medical tools sector to deal with it. John Holmes, also said&nbsp; that people of Gaza are I poor conditions due to the siege which was already imposed 18 months ago. </p><p>Thousands&nbsp; of Gaza population hurried into the local markets in search of&nbsp; life basics&nbsp; but in vain. No more fuel, benzene, gasoline, flour, wheat, sugar, rice, bread, candlelight and thousands of commodities are not available in Gaza.&nbsp; Add to that, continued power cuts up to 20 hours during the cold weather of winter. </p><p>More airborne aids from Tunisia, Bahrain and Saudia Arabia arrived to Egypt and not to Gaza Yet. Secertay of Arab league, Amr Mousa critcised statements' of livini which say no humanitarian crisis in Gaza. He indicated that Gaza faces a catastrophic situations.<br />&nbsp;</p><p>Key targets, bombings and strikes of Israeli Army in day 8</p><p>1- Israeli naval forces open heavy artilary fire on west of Al Nusairat refugee Camp. Several house were fired in the attack took place early in the morning. </p><p>2-Israeli naval vessels reach off Gaza shore firing the densely populated areas, houses, buildings leaving some Palestinians wounded.</p><p>3-A 20-year-old guy killed by Israeli rockers in an Israeli air&nbsp; raid destroyed the International American School in Bait Lahia town, north of Gaza Strip. The victim is one of the school staff.</p><p>4-Air raid targeted the Central Market of Gaza cars near Al zaytoun quarter east of Gaza City.</p><p>5-Several rockets fired at agricultural and farming fields near Al Buarij Refugee Camp mid of Gaza Strip. The bombings resulted in the killing of one farmer and injuring&nbsp; several others. </p><p>6-Two Palestinians killed at the Egyptian hospitals due to their injures in Israeli air raids in Gaza.</p><p>7-A playground hit by Israeli rockets in Al shija'ya densely populated quarter.</p><p>8-Israeli artillery shells target the eastern agricultural and farming fields&nbsp; in Gaza City.</p><p>9- Eight&nbsp; peoples injured due to bombings targeted Hils family east of Gaza City. The wounded all civilians between women and children.</p><p>10-Several deadly raids at Khan younis city targeting the civil defense forces. </p><p>11- Israeli army uses new kind of rockets leave bad smell in the targeted area. A number of heavy bombings land on several targets in Abasan Al Kabira.</p><p>12-More bombings hit Bait Hanon town targeting agricultural and farming fields. The rockets landed in Al Basha farms.</p><p>13-Many rockets targeted some agricultural fields near Khoza'a town in Kahn Yonis City mid of the occupied Gaza Strip.</p><p>14-A number of wounded people resulted from air raids near oil stations in Khan Younis City.</p><p>15-More targets attacked in Al Sudania area north of Gaza City.</p><p>16- Heavy and deadly rockets of F16s strike stores of construction materials in Jabalia City. The strike caused clouds of smoke never seen before in Gaza.</p><p>17- Shocking bombs strike more agricultural fields in Al Atatra family north of Gaza Strip.&nbsp; </p><p>18-Two Palestinians killed due to an Israeli air strike hit their car in Khan Yonis City mid of Gaza Strip.</p><p>19-Rockets fired from Israeli&nbsp; airforce destroyed to rubbles a house in AL Nusairat Refugee Camp.</p><p>20-New deadly Bombings caused holes amounted of 20 meters in the ground. A house for Al Sirhi family was totally damaged and fade away underground.</p><p>21-Thirteen heavy artillery shells landed at Bait Hanon, east of Gaza and other areas around. This vows of start of military operation on ground. The bombings of these shells is ongoing till now.</p><p>22-Shells hit some targets around Al Khozndar gas station.</p><p>23-Air strike on Slah el din key street mid of Gaza Strip. The bombings destroyed parts of the street causing deep holes on the ground hindering the movement of cars from and into Gaza.</p><p>24-Drone planes strike At Dar Al Arqam school east of Gaza City.</p><p>25-Rockets strike&nbsp; more farming fields in Absan area in Khan Yonis City.</p><p>26-Ten Artillary shells fall in Al Buraij Camp within mintues.</p><p>27-Israeli air strike at fields near Sofa crossings south of Gaza Strip, city of Rafah.</p><p>28-One injured due to a bomb west of Gaza City.</p><p>29-Airforce raided on Al Hawooz tank of Water for 3 times.</p><p>30-Three people injured in Al Zaytoun area. The rockets are also falling down in farming fields and water tanks. A massive devastation </p><p>31- Bombings at Al Shoka town and more rockets hit the Gaza airport again.</p><p>32-Around 20 rockets fired into Israeli by Palestinian militants.</p><p>33-Israel is using submarines for the first time. A sea landing is expected due to the heavy engagement of naval forces. </p><p>34-Hundreds of artillery shells fired with the start of evening through all Gaza Strip in the north, middle and south.</p><p>35-Ground to Ground rockets fired into the northern areas of Gaza.<br /></p><p><a href=""></a></p>
