---
layout: post
title: ! 'Day 12 of the Israeli War On Gaza '
joomla_id: 653
joomla_url: day-12-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza-
date: 2009-01-07 21:14:27.000000000 +01:00
---

Day 12 of Israeli War On Gaza <br />Palestinians flee their houses but Israeli rockets kill them in schools<br />By: Sameh A. Habeeb
<p>Dear Editors, Journalists and Friends,<br />Some of you do wonder how I send news in such conditions. I really suffer a lot to send you this update due to lack of power. I go around 4 kilo meters a day in this cruel war where I charge my laptop battery to be able to send this work! This is very risky since shells rain down and drones hover over me! I will keep this up.</p>
<p>This is a new report for the 12th day of Gaza War and the outcomes of Israeli invasion. For more reporting, breaking news, interviews and accounts in Gaza, you could reach me on my contact info below. Please try both numbers below because there is a big problem in communication resulted in Israeli power cuts.</p>
<p>I'm available 24 hours for media coverage in occupied Gaza. You could reach me any time in my house. welcome to call me on this number in the night: Landline: 0097282802825</p>
<p>Mob: 00972599306096<br />Landline: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb<br /><br />Please, make sure you forward this email to those who you feel are interested in this matter.<br />Day 12 of Israeli War On Gaza <br />Death toll 700, injured 3200 and most of them Civilians<br />By Sameh A. Habeeb, A Photojournalist, Humanitarian & Peace Activist in Gaza Strip.<br />Deadly Outcomes of Israeli Ground Military Operation:<br />1-Air raid targeted a group of militants in Slaah El Din street east of Gaza City. No one was reported to be wounded.<br />2-Air raid targeted an open space and agrictultral fields in Al Nusairat Refugee Camp.<br />3-Air raid targeted a house in the northern areas of Gaza.<br />4-Two civilians wounded as a missile targeted house of Al Maqosui family in Bait lahia town.<br />5-Israeli gunboats targeted many areas in Gaza City, Khan Yonis and the mid areas. Five Palestinians wounded in the bombings.<br />6-Open spaces hit in Al Nusairat Refugee Camp.<br />7-Around 50 tunnels destroyed in Rafah City.<br />8-Heavy artillery shelling in Al Zaytoun quarter east of Gaza City.<br />9-Many militants hit by Israeli airforce in Al Shaikh ridwan area.<br />10-One Palestinian killed in Bait Lahia town as Israeli <br />11-Israeli army threatens Popilation of Rafah living beside the Egyptian borders to leave their houses immediately. It is expected that Israel will bomb the tunnels area and this would destroy the houses.<br />12-A ceasefire by Israeli and Palestinian militants for three hours to allow some aids.<br />13- Four people from Kahlout family killed in Bait Lahia town. The killed ones were trying to get some bread but a drone targeted them to death. They were in their car driven by their dad to get some bread.<br />14-Around 80 trucks and vans of medical and food areas allowed by Israel into Gaza. The trucks not enough at all as Gaza needs thousands of trucks to respond for Humanitarian crisis. In the normal day Gaza was having 6-7 hundreds of all commodities!<br />15-Around 450 thousand liters of Solar get into Gaza though Gaza crossings. Gaza needs. Gaza needs over a million liter a day for the key power planet!<br />16-Air raid on Al Nafaq street mid of Gaza City.<br />17-More Israeli raids and bombs targeted the tunnels area during today's late hours.<br />18-A paramedic, Hasan El Atal, killed in eastern Jabalia town northern Gaza Strip. His car was partially damaged and his mates are okay!<br />19-Airforce raided on northern areas of Gaza and no news about the outcomes!<br />20-Al Samouni family which lost 20 of its members due to Israeli bombings found more dead bodies and alive members. Around 25 were found, dead were 15 persons and children.<br />21-Bombings targeted Al sheikh Zayed, Building 33, one killed and 4 wounded. The area is so populated and includes more than 70 buildings. <br />22-A house of 2 floors hit in Khan yonis city mid of Gaza.<br />23-One woman wounded in artillery shell in north of Gaza.<br />24-Thousands of civilians evacuated their houses in Rafah City. Bombings started!<br />25-Artillary shells hit al Twam area north of Gaza strip.<br />26- Funeral of 45 victims of United Nations massacre perpetrated by Israel exposed to Israeli fire during time of ceasefire and many people wounded.<br />27-Medical sector is cmoletely paralysed.<br />29-All Gaza strip with 90% percent in deep darkness now.<br />30-Thousands of Gazans seek water now and mostly they don't find. Water being found is not so healthy.<br />31-Bread problems eaxcebrate and more people don't find it.<br />32- Around 20 thousands Gazans took UNRWA schools are a shelter theough the Gaza Strip.</p>
<p> </p>
<p><br />----------------- <br />Sameh A. Habeeb, B.A.<br />Photojournalist & Peace Activist<br />Humanitarian, Child Relief Worker<br />Gaza Strip, Palestine<br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Tel: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb</p>
<p> </p>
