---
layout: post
title: Day 16 of the Israeli War On Gaza
joomla_id: 668
joomla_url: day-16-of-the-israeli-war-on-gaza
date: 2009-01-11 20:16:51.000000000 +01:00
---
<p> Informative Report on Gaza War: Death toll 880, wounded 3620</p>

 Dear Editors, Journalists and Friends,<br />Several untold stories still under the rubbles of Gaza devastation. The more time this war lasts the more victims fall down, their stories buried with them. Most of the Gaza Strip plunges into deep darkness since the start of this war. I find several hardships to send out this report due to power problem. Today, a rocket targeted my uncle's house. My house got several splinters and rocket shrapnel. Thanks to God, we all safe but I don't know what will happen next. <br />This is a new report for the 16th day of Gaza War and the outcomes of Israeli invasion. For more reporting, breaking news, interviews and accounts in Gaza, you could reach me on my contact info below. Please try both numbers below because there is a big problem in communication resulted in Israeli power cuts.<br />I'm available 24 hours for media coverage in occupied Gaza. You could reach me any time in my house. welcome to call me on this number in the night: Landline: 0097282802825
<p>PLEASE: FORWARD THIS EMAIL IN SIPPORT OF THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY!</p>
<p>Mob: 00972599306096<br />Landline: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb<br /><br />Please, make sure you forward this email to those who you feel are interested in this matter.<br />Day 16 of Israeli War On Gaza <br />By Sameh A. Habeeb, A Photojournalist, Humanitarian & Peace Activist in Gaza Strip.<br />Daily Feed About Gaza War:<br />1-Air raids on all points where the military ground operation in the first hour of the day 16.<br />2-Air raid destroyed the house of Abu Nizar Awadallah in Nasir area south north of Gaza.<br />3-Bombings near Omar Bin Khatab mosque in Khan younis in time of down praying for Muslims.<br />4-Extensive bombings on Palestinian Egyptian borders south of Rafah City.<br />5-A-25-woman killed in Khoza'a area due to Phosphorous bombs in Khan Yonis. Around 50 wounded according to medical sources.<br />6-Air raid destroyed house of Al Qasam commander, Ahmed Al Ja'bari, in east of Gaza Shijaya area.<br />7-Shells and rockets rained down in Khan Yonis City targeted open places.<br />8-A rocket targeted an orphanage and Al Fadila mosque in Rafah City.<br />9- A Palestinian killed and his father wounded in an Israeli raid in Khan Yonis City central Gaza.<br />10-Al Quds brigades: three of its fighters killed in Jabalia town.<br />11-Israeli air force threw thousand of leaflets at Rafah areas near the borders requesting populations to leave their houses.<br />12-A Palestinian, Baha' Abed 25, years killed and his sister Shaida abed wounded in Jabalia Refugee camp by an artillery shells.<br />13-A Palestinian killed and 2 wounded in Al zana area east of Khan Yonis City.<br />14-A rocket hit a car in Rafah and 5 people wounded in Rafah City.<br />15-Four Palestinian wounded in artillery shelling in Jabalia.<br />16-A Palestinian killed due to his wounds in Khan Yonis City.<br />17-Israeli drone fired a rocket towards Al Karama bulidning leaving 4 people dead from one family and an old woman. They area, Ala Bashir 40, his wife Lamia, 40, their son Sohaib, 18, and Jamila zyada 75 years.<br />18-A Palestinian killed, Ebrahim Salma, 25, killed near Al Krama buildings in bombings from Israeli air force.<br />19-Artillary shells hit house of Muhammad Khalaf in Jabalia. Two Palestinians from the same killed, the dead are Ebrahim Khalad, 35, and Belal Yahya,19. Around 10 wounded before the Israeli army destroyed the house by bulldozers.<br />20-Five children killed in Bait Lahia due to Israeli bombings. Two of them are sisters and 7 from others family. The killed ones are, Haitham yaser Ma'rof 12, Jehan, 16, Fatima Ma'rof 16. Two others from Ghaban family whose name are Khawla,16, Sahar,14.<br />21- Two Palestinians militants killed in Shija'ya area east of Gaza City.<br />22-A rocket targeted house of Tal'at hamoda resulted in the killing of his two sons. One of them is an infant, Fares 1year and a half and Muhmmad 22 years.<br />23-Head of Emergency and Ambulances: Death toll 880 and injured 3620.<br />24-A Palestinian killed in Rafah and several wounded south of the occupied strip.<br />25-Israeli army raided on the borders with Egypt, many tunnels destroyed.<br />26-A Palestinian killed in Jabalai evening of today. Around 3 other wounded, medical sources said.<br />27-Israeli tanks advanced into the Gaza Strip, town of Tal Al hawa. The tanks were faced by heavy fightings resulted in the death of many militants and few civilians. Muhammad Sada, Abd Al Kashif, Ebrahim Hamada, Abdalla Shmalkh, Ali shamalkh, Esam Shamalkh, Mahmoud Shamalk, Muhammd Tatr, Muhammad Al Naji, Ramzi Abu Ghanima and Ata Al Dahdods. They all aged between 18 to 37.<br />28-An artillery shell hit house of Al Jilb in Tal al hawa area. A 70-year-oldman killed in the attack.<br />29-A rocket fired from Israeli drone killed a man aged 24, Nour Abu Amish.<br />30-Local radios: A Palestinian woman who was going to deliver a baby and two of her relatives killed in Bait Lahia City. Many wounded in the place as an artillery shell targeted them.<br />31-Artilary shells targeted many buildings in Tal al hawa area. Tens wounded and 3 killed including a child aged 4 years.<br />32-Deadly clashes between Israeli army and Palestinian fighters near Jabal Al Kashif area northern Gaza.<br />33-A Palestinian called, Osama Abu Rijila, killed by rocket fired from a drone in Khan yonis. Another woman called, Hanan Al Najar.</p>
<p>34-Amnestey claimed that Israeli army is perpetrating War Crimes in Gaza.<br />35-Two rockets hit the area of Yaromk mid of Gaza, no one injured in the place.<br />36-Paramdicds found 14 dead bodies "corps" after Israeli tanks retreat from Khan Yonis area.<br />37-Israeli army targeted house of Awad and Hanya northern Gaza Strip.<br />38-Continued shells from Artillery canons northern Gaza Strip.<br />39-Heavy shells on the Gaza port and Al Shati' Refugee camp.<br />40-Apachi helicopters fired at Al Tofah and Sah'f area east of Gaza.<br />41-Many buildings destroyed at al Sudanya area.<br />42-More heavy raids on the borders with Egypt by F16s. <br />43-More thousands leaflets from Israeli air force in Rafah requesting all residents to leave their houses near Palestinian Egyptian borders. <br />44-Four people seriously injured in bombings targeted house of Muhammad Al Mutwag in Jabalia.<br />45-Rocket targeted Al Kahlout family in Gaza City and four people wounded in the place.<br />46-Palestinian fighters fired 20 rockets into Israeli settlements. <br />47-More Phosphorous bombs are being used east of Gaza City and this is so clear on the T.V footages going out of Gaza.<br />48-Humantarian Crisis still exacerbated as no access to water and bread.<br />49-Medical sector still paralyzed!<br />50-Hundreds of people flee from Jabalia town to Gaza City.<br />51-Three Egyptian soldiers wounded in Israeli bombings near the borders.<br />52-Many ambulances stop due to fuel shortages!<br />53-Israeli F16s targeted by heavy rockets a house near Ministry of Culture in Gaza. Many houses partially damaged as the area is densely populated. Around 10 people wounded in the place mid of Gaza City.<br />54-A car hit by Israeli air force in Nasir area south of Gaza City.<br />55-Two people killed at Al Shija'ya area in Israeli shelling targeted their house east of Gaza City.<br />56-Israeli naval forces open fire on Gaza shore.<br />57-Three patients died at Al Shifa' hospital due to their critical injuries.<br />58-Egyptian Doctors who came to Gaza: "we are shocked about the medical sector here. We have never seen such casualties."<br />59-Israeli army spokesman, Avehay adra'I denied the use of banned weapons while Many International Ngo's confirmed that Israel is using them. Human Rights Watah confirmed that and consider what's going in Gaza as war crimes!<br />60- A fire destroyed several factories and buildings east of Gaza near Jabalia Camp.<br />61-United Nations Training center, SMETH, partially damaged in a nearby bombing targeted a house near the culture ministry. <br />62- Around 40 wounded people in critical conditions left Gaza to Egypt and Arab hospitals.<br />63-Israeli F16s raided on a target in the Gaza City, al Zaytoun quarter. The rocket targeted a workshop.<br />64-Three Palestinians killed in Jabalia, near Al Jorn street northern eastern Gaza City. <br />65-Air force hovers all over the Gaza Strip in the early house of Sunday evening. <br />66-Israeli Premier, Ehud Olmert, "the military operation will continue"<br />67-Total casualties of today only is 30 persons.<br />68-Another 2 bombings by F16s in Al Zayotun area on some buildings that partially and totally destroyed. <br />69-Artillary shells in Abasan area east of Khan Yonis City and many people injured.<br />70-Many people faced suffocation cases in Khoza'a area due to an Israeli artillery shell. <br />Sameh A. Habeeb, B.A.<br />Photojournalist & Peace Activist<br />Humanitarian, Child Relief Worker<br />Gaza Strip, Palestine<br />Mob: 00972599306096<br />Tel: 0097282802825<br />E-mail: Sam_hab@hotmail.com<br />Sameh.habeeb@gmail.com<br />Skype: Gazatoday, Facebook: Sameh A. habeeb<br />Web: www.gazatoday.blogspot.com<br />Daily Photos:http://picasaweb.google.com/sameh.habeeb</p>
<p> </p>
