---
layout: post
title: Please help us break the siege of Gaza
joomla_id: 999
joomla_url: please-help-us-break-the-siege-of-gaza
date: 2009-07-06 08:01:46.000000000 +02:00
---
05 JULY 2009<br />PLEASE <a href="http://www.freegaza.org/en/donate" target="_blank">GIVE GENEROUSLY</a> AND HELP US BREAK THE SIEGE OF GAZA<br /><a href="http://www.freegaza.org/" target="_blank">www.FreeGaza.org</a><br /><br /> <em style="font-family: garamond,serif;">“The landing of two wooden boats carrying human rights activists in Gaza is an important symbolic victory ... Above all, what is being tested is whether the imaginative engagement of dedicated private citizens can influence the struggle of a beleaguered people for basic human rights, and whether their courage and commitment can awaken the conscience of humanity to an unfolding tragedy.”</em><br style="font-family: garamond,serif;" /> <span style="font-family: garamond,serif;">- Richard Falk, UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in the OPT (August 2008)</span><br /><br />Dear Friends,<br /><br />On Tuesday, July 30 the Israeli Navy <strong>forcibly boarded our boat</strong>, SPIRIT OF HUMANITY, confiscating the ship and abducting 21 human rights workers and journalists, including Nobel laureate Mairead Maguire and former U.S. Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney. Israel's violent actions temporarily prevented us from delivering much needed humanitarian and reconstruction supplies to besieged Gaza. <br />

<br /> All of us in the Free Gaza Movement have been overwhelmed with the support and well-wishes we have received in these past days. All of us are deeply grateful for the thousands of phone calls and emails that you have sent, the demonstrations that have been organized around the world, and the pressure you have brought to bear on Israel and your own governments to free the 'Free Gaza 21.' Thank you. <br /> <br />We began this campaign three years ago on hope alone. Many thought it couldn’t be done. We did it. We broke through the Israeli siege. <strong>But we need your help to keep going.</strong> To date, the Free Gaza Movement has organized eight voyages to Palestine, successfully arriving in Gaza Port five times. We have brought dozens of human rights workers, journalists, parliamentarians, and others to Gaza, as well as tons of desperately needed medical and humanitarian supplies. Free Gaza boats are the first international ships to sail to the Gaza Strip since 1967.<br /> <br />Some are wondering whether or not this project is still sustainable. We don't just believe that it is - <strong>we know that it is.</strong> If history demonstrates anything, it is that the greatest of injustices can crumble in the blink of an eye when confronted with a well-organized and determined resistance. <br /> <br />That’s why we're turning to you today. We need your help now more than ever. We desperately need funds. None of these voyages would have been possible without you, our friends. Your emotional, political, and financial support is the foundation of all our successes. <br /> <br />We will not be deterred. With your support we will go to Gaza again and again, until this siege is forever shattered. <a href="http://www.freegaza.org/en/donate" target="_blank"><strong>Please give generously</strong></a> to keep us afloat and to ensure that the Palestinian people have free access to the rest of the world.<br /> <br />Sincerely Yours,<br />Huwaida Arraf<br />Greta Berlin<br />Eliza Ernshire<br />Derek Graham<br />Fathi Jaouadi<br />Ramzi Kysia<br />Vaggelis Pissias<br />The interim Board of Directors for the Free Gaza Movement<br /><br />PS: We're suggesting a donation of €200, but please give what you can. Your contributions will go directly toward the purchase of a cargo ship and at least 2 new passenger vessels - making it that much more difficult for Israel to stop us on our next voyage. <br /> <br /> * DONATE to Free Gaza by credit card through PayPal:<br /> Visit our website for more information, or send donations directly through PayPal at "donations [at] <a href="../" target="_blank">freegaza.org</a>"<br /> <br /> * DONATE to Free Gaza by wire transfer: To donate by wire transfer, please send to:<br /><br /> EURO Account<br /> Account name:     F.G. Human Rights Projects Ltd<br /> Account number:   0155-01-096552-00<br /> IBAN:          CY06 0020 0155 0000 0001 0965 5200<br /> Bank Name:     Bank of Cyprus Public Company Ltd<br /> International Business Unit, Nicosia, Cyprus<br /> SWIFT Code:    BCYPCY2N<br /><br /> US Dollar Account<br /> Account name:    F.G. Human Rights Projects Ltd<br /> Account number:  0155-40-768398-06<br /> IBAN:          CY04 0020 0155 0000 0040 7683 9806<br /> Bank Name:     Bank of Cyprus Public Company Ltd<br /> International Business Unit, Nicosia, Cyprus<br /> SWIFT Code:    BCYPCY2N<br /><br /> GBP Sterling Account<br /> Account name:    F.G. Human Rights Projects Ltd<br /> Account number:  0155-40-768401-01<br /> IBAN:          CY90 0020 0155 0000 0040 7684 0101<br /> Bank Name:     Bank of Cyprus Public Company Ltd<br /> International Business Unit, Nicosia, Cyprus<br /> SWIFT Code:    BCYPCY2N<br /><br /> For more information:<br /> tel: +357 99 081 767<br /> friends [at] <a href="../" target="_blank">freegaza.org</a><br />
