---
layout: post
title: International human rights workers to accompany farmers in Khoza'a,  Gaza on
  21-02-09 at 8am
joomla_id: 762
joomla_url: international-human-rights-workers-to-accompany-farmers-in-khozaa-gaza-on-21-02-09-at-8am
date: 2009-02-20 12:31:01.000000000 +01:00
---
<p>For Immediate Release- 8am, Saturday 21st  February 2009: Ten International Human Rights Workers will be accompanying Palestinian farmers in Khoza’a village, of eastern Khan Younis.  Farmers and international accompaniers were last fired upon by Israeli forces on the 18th of February, causing a Palestinian farmer to be shot in the leg.</p>

International Human Rights Workers will accompany Waled abu Arjela, a<br />Palestinian farmer, in Am Almad of Khoza’a village.  Arjela's land is<br />approximately 550 metres from the 'Green Line'.<br /><br />"We are accompanying these farmers to harvest their crops because they<br />have a right to their land.  Palestinians who live or have land within<br />1 kilometre of the Green Line are being driven out by Israeli military<br />violence. We consider this to be a form of ethnic cleansing. With<br />international accompaniment, these farmers are able to harvest their<br />crops with a much greater degree of safety than if they were to come<br />to these areas alone" Andrew Muncie (Scotland) - International Human<br />Rights Worker<br /><br />This action comes after farm worker Mohammad Il Ibrahim, 20, was shot<br />in the right leg as the farmers, together with the international Human<br />Rights Workers, attempted to leave the area having worked on their<br />land for 2 hours in full view of the Israeli forces situated along the<br />‘Green Line’.<br /><br />"Around 10.15am, the farmers were preparing to leave the area. They<br />had loaded 2 trucks with produce and were ready to drive off, but one<br />of the vehicles had broken down. As Mohammad, and several others, were<br />trying to push the truck away, we heard several shots and Mohammad was<br />hit in the right leg.<br /><br />We are clearly civilian farmers and internationals with visible vests<br />and a megaphone. The shots that caused the injury were not warning<br />shots to signal to leave the area, because we were already leaving the<br />area. They continued to fire at us, even after Mohammad was being<br />evacuated. The shooting from Israeli forces was purely a show of<br />aggression." Jenny Linnel (Britain) – International Human Rights<br />Worker<br /><br />On Tuesday 27th January 2009, in Al Faraheen, Israeli forces shot at<br />several farmers, killing one.<br /><br /><br />Interviews with volunteers are possible.<br /><br />Please Contact:<br /><br />Fida Qishta (Palestine) - +972 599 681 669<br /><br />Vittorio Arrigoni (Italy) - +972 59 8378945<br /><br />Tara  Jenson (Australia) +972 598 359 607<br /><br />Jenny Linnel (Britain) +972 598 765 377<br /><br />Ewa Jasiewicz (Britain/Poland) +972 598 700 497<br /><br />Andrew Muncie (Britain) +972 598 058 250<br /><br />For General Information:<br /><br />ISM media office: +972 22971824 or +972 549032981
