---
layout: post
title: ! 'The Forgotten American '
joomla_id: 1241
joomla_url: the-forgotten-american-
date: 2010-07-27 08:23:41.000000000 +02:00
---
<br />By ROGER COHEN<br /><a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/27/opinion/27iht-edcohen.html?_r=1&ref=global&pagewanted=print" target="_blank">http://www.nytimes.com/2010/<wbr></wbr>07/27/opinion/27iht-edcohen.<wbr></wbr>html?_r=1&ref=global&<wbr></wbr>pagewanted=print</a><br /> <br />TROY, New York — The Dogans were a quiet family little noticed by  their neighbors here in upstate New York. Ahmet Dogan had come to the  area from Turkey to study accounting at the Rensselaer Polytechnic  Institute. <br /> <br />He was a serious student; the Dogans did little entertaining. But  when their younger son, Furkan, was born in 1991, the family threw a  party and a neighbor recalled a toast “to the first U.S. citizen in the  family.” <br /> <br />Furkan Dogan would live just two years in Troy, returning to Turkey  with his family in 1993. But he was proud of his American passport and  dreamt of coming back after completing medical school. Five Israeli  bullets — at least two of them to the head — ended that dream on May 31.  Dogan was 19. <br /> <br />The young American, who had just completed high school with  excellent grades in the central Turkish town of Kayseri, had seen an  online advertisement for volunteers to deliver aid to Gaza. The ad, from  a Turkish charity called the Humanitarian Relief Foundation, or I.H.H,  said the goal of the trip was to show that Israel’s “embargo/blockade  can be legally broken.” <br /> <br />Little interested in politics, but with an aspiring doctor’s concern for Palestinian suffering, Dogan won a lottery to go. 

<br /> <br />How  he was killed is disputed — as is just about everything concerning the  Israeli naval takeover of the six-boat Gaza-bound flotilla — but his  father suspects a video camera carried by his son may have provoked  Israeli commandos. <br /> <br />O.K., enough said, that’s the start of the story you haven’t read  about the short life of Furkan Dogan, an American killed by Israeli  forces in international waters on the Turkish-flagged Mavi Marmara. <br /> <br />In  truth I have not been to Troy but I do find the effacement of Dogan  since his death almost two months ago at once offensive and instructive.  <br /> <br />I have little doubt that if the American killed on those ships had  been Hedy Epstein, a St. Louis-based Holocaust survivor, or Edward Peck,  a former U.S. ambassador to Mauritania, we would have heard a lot more.  We would have read the kind of tick-tock reconstructions that the  deaths of Americans abroad in violent and disputed circumstances tend to  provoke. (Epstein had planned to be aboard the flotilla and Peck was.) <br /> <br />I also have little doubt that if the incident had been different —  say a 19-year-old American student called Michael Sandler killed by a  Palestinian gunman in the West Bank when caught in a cross-fire between  Palestinians and Israelis — we would have been deluged in stories about  him. <br /> <br />But a chill descends when you have the combination of Israeli  commandos doing the firing, an American with a foreign-sounding Muslim  name, and the frenzied pre-emptive arguments of Israel and those among  its U.S. supporters who will brook no criticism of the Jewish state. <br /> <br />This chill is a bad thing. Let’s do whatever it takes to find out  how Dogan died — and the eight other victims. The Middle East requires  more open debate and the dropping of taboos. It needs the leading  institutions of American Jewry to encourage broad discussion rather  than, as Peter Beinart put it in an important recent essay in The New  York Review of Books, checking “their liberalism at Zionism’s door.” <br /> <br />Let’s face it, without the flotilla outcry that allowed the Obama  administration to question Israel’s self-defeating suffocation of Gaza,  Israel would still be imposing the blockade that handed Hamas control of  whatever was left of the Gaza economy. Now that blockade has been  eased. <br /> <br />As this suggests, Israel will, ostrich-like, push policies born of  the security mantra way beyond their rationale, only changing course  when its critical friends raise their voices. It’s time for the U.S.  Jewish establishment to think again — and think openly — or risk losing  the many younger Jews troubled by Israel’s course. <br /> <br />I hope every member of Congress read Beinart’s piece. I contacted  the office of Congressman Paul Tonko, who represents the Troy area, to  ask about Dogan. A spokesman, Beau Duffy, wrote saying that “There  really isn’t much of a local connection here” and that Tonko had no  comment. Hardly a surprise: Nobody in Congress has had anything to say  about this American death. <br /> <br />I called the State Department, where an official said the U.S.  ambassador in Turkey has offered the Dogan family assistance. (He also  denied reports that the United States plans to designate I.H.H. a  terrorist organization.) <br /> <br />Any further action, including a possible F.B.I. investigation of  Dogan’s death, will hinge on the results of the inquiry being led by a  retired Israeli Supreme Court justice and including two foreign  observers. The Dogan family could also request F.B.I. action. <br /> <br />But it seems they have few illusions. Professor Dogan, who teaches  at Kayseri University, told the Wall Street Journal’s Marc Champion (who  wrote the best piece on Dogan) that he’s been wondering what the U.S.  response would have been if his son had been a Christian living  stateside. Having lived in America, he said, “I know what people do  there when a cat gets stuck in a tree.” <br /> <br />It’s different, however, when an American Muslim male gets stuck in a hail of Israeli gunfire.
