---
layout: post
title: Freedom Flotilla Coalition Meets in Stockholm Next Flotilla on its Way Back
  to Gaza
joomla_id: 1242
joomla_url: freedom-flotilla-coalition-meets-in-stockholm-next-flotilla-on-its-way-back-to-gaza
date: 2010-08-04 16:28:58.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE<br /><br />(Stockholm, August 4, 2010) It has been  over two months since Israel’s 31 May 2010 deadly assault on the Freedom  Flotilla and little to nothing has been done to hold Israel accountable  for its savage attack that led to the killing of nine of our  colleagues, or to end Israel’s continued violations against the  Palestinian people, especially the 1.5 million residents of Gaza.   Therefore, we are continuing our global, grassroots effort to stand up  to Israel’s ongoing intransigence, including planning our next direct  action, plans to enlarge our coalition to include groups from around the  world who want to join us, as well as intensify our efforts to mobilize  for the new Freedom Flotilla 2. <br /> <br /> The world must continue to demand that Israel cooperate with the UN  Human Rights Council’s investigation committee to ensure independence,  thoroughness, credibility, and justice for the victims. <br /><br />We have  real concerns with the new UN panel tasked by Secretary General Ban Ki  Moon to investigate Israel’s raid. as an apparent attempt to downgrade  the UN Human Rights Council’s investigation, which Israel has yet to  accept. The Secretary General’s new panel will have a very limited  mandate of evaluating only current national investigations by Israel and  Turkey, and therefore will hardly meet international standards for  being impartial, and thorough. <br /> <br />Moreover, the appointment of ex-Colombian President Alvaro Uribe as  its vice-chair further corrodes the legitimacy of this UN panel. Not  only is the Uribe government on record stating a desire to strengthen  Colombia's military relationship with Israel, but President Uribe’s own  human rights record in Columbia should be a matter for investigation as  evidenced by the report from the Fellowship of Reconciliation. <a href="http://forusa.org/content/report-military-assistance-human-rights-colombia-us-accountability-global-implications" target="_blank">http://forusa.org/content/<wbr></wbr>report-military-assistance-<wbr></wbr>human-rights-colombia-us-<wbr></wbr>accountability-global-<wbr></wbr>implications</a>.</p>
<p />

<br /> <br />The United Nations must not be involved in any attempt to whitewash  atrocities or to preempt international legal action on behalf of the  victims of the flotilla. Israel’s alleged easing of the closure on Gaza  has been purely cosmetic, intended only to deflect criticism from its  illegal policies. Expanding the list of items permitted into Gaza does  not address the most fundamental concern of the people there – freedom  of movement. Hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children are still  denied the right to travel freely for medical care, educational  opportunities, or even to reunite with family members in other parts of  the occupied Palestinian territory. What we demand is an immediate and  complete lifting of the closure including a lifting of the travel ban as  well as the ban on exports from Gaza. We also demand that Israel  release, unconditionally, our captured vessels and stolen equipment.<br /> <br />Israel and our respective governments must know that we represent a  growing movement of international civilians unwilling to stand idly by  while Israel continues to act with impunity -- killing, maiming,  jailing, stealing, and assaulting the very basics of our common  humanity. Israel has not only deliberately created a humanitarian crisis  in Gaza, but it has created a crisis of human rights and human dignity  in all of Palestine that the world must address. <br /> <br />This is why our flotilla aimed to challenge the very policies that  have left Palestinians in need of humanitarian aid, and  not just to  deliver essential goods to Gaza. It is why, in the coming months, we  will send larger and larger flotillas to Gaza.<br /><span style="color: #888888;"> <br />-- <br />Contact: Huwaida Arraf 970-598-336-215, 972 54 881 7046<br />Mattias Gardell: +46 703036666<br /> Dror Feiler: +46 702855777<br />Greta Berlin, +33 607 374 512<br /><br />Flotilla  members include:  IHH, Free Gaza movement, Swedish Ship to Gaza,  European Campaign to End the Siege on Gaza, International Campaign to  End the Siege on Gaza and the Greek Ship to Gaza<br /> </span></p>
