---
layout: post
title: Our deepest sympathies
joomla_id: 1220
joomla_url: our-deepest-sympathies
date: 2010-06-07 05:11:06.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>By Bianca Shaana and<span style="color: #000000;"> <span email="freegazaireland@gmail.com">Niamh Moloughney</span></span></p>
<p>In  the dark, early hours of May 31, Israel launched a commando and navy  attack on 6 unarmed civilian ships carrying humanitarian aid in the  international waters of the Mediterranean sea, opening fire before they  landed. These highly trained, professional soldiers killed and wounded  tens of civilians, many of whom were on the Mavi Marmara, a boat owned  by the Turkish charity, IHH (The Foundation for Human Rights  &  Freedoms & Humanitarian Relief).</p>
<p>We in the Free Gaza Movement would like to  offer our deepest sympathy to the people of Turkey and particularly to  the 9 families who have lost loved ones. 28 children have lost their  fathers due to the Israeli attack on the Mavi Marmara.Britain's Guardian  newspaper quoted Yalcin Buyuk, the vice-chairman of the Turkish council  of forensic medicine, as saying that the nine  victims  were shot a  total of 30 times. Based on preliminary autopsy reports, two men were  shot four times each and five others were shot either in the back of the  head or in the back. Ibrahim Bilgen, a 60-year-old activist, was shot  four times in the temple, chest, hip and back. Nineteen-year-old Furkan  Dogan, a US citizen of Turkish descent, was shot five times from less  than 45cm away, in the face, the back of the head, twice in the leg and  once in the back. Two IHH aid workers, Cevdet Kiliclar and Necdet  Yildrim, were amongst the victims.</p>
<p>We in Free Gaza are proud and honored to  work and be associated with the IHH and its honorable track record of  humanitarian missions worldwide. As a human rights organization,  it is hard  for us to comprehend  this kind of violence by Israel, especially when  used against civilians embarked upon a humanitarian mission, such as  that of the highly respected IHH.  Furthermore it is  appalling  that the inflammatory remarks of Netanyahu, referring to  them as "a ship of hate organised by violent Turkish terror extremists"  should subsequently be repeated or even referred to by the media  as anything but a pathetically transparent attempt to justify the  inadmissable.</p>
<p>The facts are simple:  The blockade of the port of Gaza is illegal, as deemed by international  law and the UN. This point cannot be argued, the siege must end, the  rights and dignity of the Palestinians in Gaza must be honoured, the  port must be opened. Alongside of our partners in the Freedom Flotilla,  we demand that Israel returns our boats including the Spirit of  Humanity, detained by Israel since early 2009. The Free Gaza Movement  and our international parteners intend to launch another flotilla at the  first available opportunity. After that there will be yet another...  and another... until this diabolical blockade collapses and steps  towards peace are finally taken.</p>
<p>On June 6, another  boat was announced by the ''Jüdische Stimme''. Along with her partners,  the EJJP and JJP (UK), they are sending a boat and call to world leaders  to help Israel find her way back to reason, a sense of humanity and a  life without fear. ''Jewish Voices'' expects the political leaders of  Israel and the world to guarantee safe passage for their small vessel to  Gaza, thus helping to form a bridge towards peace. The FGM and our  partners would like to acknowledge and thank the many governments, in  particular that of Ireland and Turkey, for their support  for our  mission. However most importantly of all, we would like to thank  the'ordinary people from everywhere who contributed to the cargo and  raised their voices together to spread the message worldwide: This siege  of the Gaza strip and the imprisonment of its people must end.</p>
