---
layout: post
title: Slaughter at Sea
joomla_id: 1236
joomla_url: slaughter-at-sea
date: 2010-07-10 17:08:30.000000000 +02:00
---
As we get ready to challenge Israel's illegal blockade of Gaza once more, we would ask you to remember the nine men murdered in cold blood by Israeli commandos, who came down from helicopters firing live ammunition. <br /> <br />The official autopsy reports will be released in the next couple of weeks, but preliminary reports say the nine men were shot over 31 times, most through the face and the top of the head. If you have not seen their photos or read who they are, we have now uploaded their information as well as how they were killed onto our FLICKR site. Please take a moment to pay your respects and maybe, add a comment. <br /> <br /><a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freegaza/?saved=1" target="_blank">http://www.flickr.com/photos/<wbr></wbr>freegaza/?saved=1</a><br clear="all" /><br />These nine men were husbands and fathers, an American student who wanted to become a doctor, a fireman who came to help on board the Mavi Marmara, a photojournalist shot through the middle of the forehead as he tried to photograph Israel's assault on a civilian ship in international waters in the dark.<br /> <br />No matter what spin Israel sends out or its slick talking heads who try to justify murder and mayhem, it is important to remember that none of these men were armed with guns, sound bombs or tear gas. No Israeli soldier was shot... as members on board the Mavi Marmara tried to defend themselves... something every one of us would have done if our family, friends, ship or home was attacked by masked armed intruders. <br /> <br />No Israeli soldier was killed. The few who were injured were treated by Turkish doctors, then sent back to their unit. <br /><br />The terrorists on board that ship as well as the other five ships, (where passengers were beaten, tied up, tear gassed and wounded), worked for the Israeli navy.<br /><span style="color: #888888;"> </span>
