---
layout: post
title: Citizen Voices from 26 Countries in Europe Express Outrage Over Israel's Actions
joomla_id: 1229
joomla_url: citizen-voices-from-26-countries-in-europe-express-outrage-over-israels-actions
date: 2010-06-15 20:50:58.000000000 +02:00
---
<p>The Israeli  Defence Force responded to signs of peace with acts of war. It attacked a  flotilla of boats in international waters that carried people and humanitarian  goods. It destroyed precious lives. Brutality has not stopped there. Ordinary  Palestinians awaiting much needed help have been victimized yet again.</p>
<p>We, as  individuals who are not members of activist peace organizations but simply  cherish the ideals of peace and justice, are deeply disturbed by what the  Israeli government and its military have done and by the disinformation it and  its supporters have spread in trying to legitimize acts of crime.</p>
<p><br />It is for  these reasons that we are giving our names. By doing so we join, with anguish  and outrage, the many fellow citizens around the world who feel as we do. We  salute those Israelis who courageously object to the dangerous policies of their  government and who condemn the recent attacks against the flotilla of peace for  Gaza. We appeal to the Israeli Government to accept the ideals of peace and  dialogue and to respect the dignity of others. There is no other way to find a  solution in the conflict with Palestine and to end the suffering and the loss of  life in Palestine and in Israel.<br /><br />Dr Marin Marinow (Bulgaria)<br />Liljana  Milanovic (Serbia)<br />Frank Farrelly (Ireland)<br />Carl Erich Wiberg  (Sweden)<br />Alexei Sayle (United Kingdom)<br />Margherita Amodeo (Malta)<br />Elena  Gallego Fernández (Spain)<br />Tatjana Teterwa (Belarus)<br />Alex Stuyven  (Netherlands)<br />Zarema Katuschewa (Ukraine)<br />Birgitte Arnvig  (Denmark)<br />Ragnval Dahl (Norway)<br />Marie-France Sangouard (France)<br />Pierre  A. Krenger (Switzerland)<br />Dr. Anita Schächter (Germany)<br />Andrej Bekenjow  (Russia)<br />Laura Cardone (Italy)<br />Jan Pelech (Czech)<br />Dr. Norbert Rozsenich  (Austria)<br />Andreas Kourakis (Greece)<br />Kristrun Heimisdáttir (Iceland)<br />Eva  Rizea (Romenia)<br />Dr. Tanja Gorakova (Slovakia)<br />Damir Hajric (Bosnia &  Herzegowina)<br />Prof. Dr. S. de Henauw (Belgium)<br />Anita Campo  (Estonia)</p>
<p>When year after year promises are not fulfilled, when instead  demographic cleansing is the order of the day, when symptoms become the pretence  for force and causes are ignored, when military action replaces peaceful  dialogue, when honesty becomes travesty, there comes a time when the outcry of  ordinary citizens no longer remains a whisper but becomes a crescendo. This time  has come.</p>
<p>Hans von Sponeck<br />Former United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator  for Iraq<br />June 2010</p>
