---
layout: post
title: Freedom Flotilla II - Stay Human Ready to Leave in June
joomla_id: 1289
joomla_url: freedom-flotilla-ii-stay-human-ready-to-leave-in-june
date: 2011-05-20 05:45:18.000000000 +02:00
---
<a href="http://www.freedomflotilla.eu/en/news/announcements/112-we-are-getting-ready-to-sail">http://www.freedomflotilla.eu/en/news/announcements/112-we-are-getting-ready-to-sail </a> <br />9 MAY 2011<br /><br />[Paris, France] The international Steering  Committee of Freedom Flotilla II just concluded its planning meeting in  Paris, a few weeks before the scheduled departure of the flotilla to  Gaza. <br /><br />Freedom Flotilla II will leave during the third week of  June, with ships departing from various European ports, including  Marseilles. We’re very pleased to announce the recent addition of a  Swiss-German boat to the flotilla.  In July 2010 Germany’s Bundestag  passed a resolution calling for an end to the Israeli blockade of Gaza. A  number of our respective governments have said the same. The UN Human  Rights Committee Fact Finding Mission into the 2010 flotilla attack  found Israel’s blockade on Gaza to be unlawful. The International  Committee of the Red Cross has said that Israel must end its illegal  closure of Gaza. Yet Israel continues to disregard international law and  ignore the will of the international community.  Without any strong  diplomatic action being taken to enforce international law and defend  the human rights of the Palestinian people, the flotilla must sail and  other international initiatives to end Israel’s impunity are called for.<br /><br />We  are encouraged by the reported decision of the new Egyptian government  to open the Rafah crossing. But just as Egyptians stayed in Tahrir  Square, accepting nothing less than the departure of the former regime,  so too we must accept nothing less than a full end of the illegal  blockade of Gaza and all forms of the Israeli occupation of Palestine.  <br /><br />In  one week, Palestinians will mark 63 years since the Nakba and the  beginning of the dispossession of the Palestinian people from their  homes.  Next month will mark 44 years since the onset of the Israeli  occupation of the West Bank, Gaza and Jerusalem.  And July will mark 4  years since the near hermetic closure of Gaza.  The question is no  longer why we are sailing to break the blockade, but why is it taking  the international community so long to act.  We call on the community of  states and people around the world to uphold international law in  Palestine, and support the Freedom Flotilla.<br /><br />Tomorrow, members of  the Steering Committee will head to Strasbourg for meetings with  European Parliament members to discuss the details of the flotilla and  their active support.  From now until we sail, members of the flotilla  will be meeting their government officials, the UN and other  international organizations to gain support for this global civil  society action to end Israel’s criminal blockade of Gaza.
