---
layout: post
title: ! 'Gaza''s Ark:  Building Hope'
joomla_id: 1355
joomla_url: gazas-ark-building-hope
date: 2012-05-17 15:43:34.000000000 +02:00
---
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Canadian Boat to Gaza, in cooperation, with international  initiatives in the US, Australia and other countries, is launching a new  initiative to challenge the illegal and inhumane Israeli blockade of  Gaza, the only Mediterranean port closed to shipping.<br /> <br /> This new initiative: <strong>Gaza’s Ark</strong>, will build a boat in Gaza, using  existing resources. A crew of internationals and Palestinians will sail  it out of Gaza carrying Palestinian products to fulfill trade deals  with international buyers.<br /> <br /> <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> will be constructed in Gaza by Palestinian hands and expertise, with international assistance.<br /> <br /> <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> will help revitalize the dwindling ship building  industry in Gaza and help ensure the transmission of this disappearing  expertise (another effect of the blockade) to the younger generations.<br /> <br /> Through <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> and trade deals secured between Palestinian  producers in Gaza and international businesses and NGOs a channel will  be established to export Palestinian products from Gaza that are  available despite the blockade.<br /> <br /> <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> will also provide training to Gaza's sailors in the  use of up-to-date electronic sailing equipment and techniques which they  have been denied for years as a result of the blockade.<br /> <br /> Although it will help in a very limited manner to alleviate Gaza’s  unemployment crisis by paying wages to the boat builders and providing  business opportunities to traders, <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> is not an aid  project. It is a peaceful action against the blockade which Israel  unilaterally and unreasonably imposes on Gaza. <br /> <br /> <strong>Gaza’s Ark</strong> also stands in solidarity with the Palestinian fishery  in Gaza whose ability to operate in territorial waters and to derive a  livelihood is threatened by the same Israeli blockade which our campaign  is challenging.<br /> <br /> <strong>Gaza’s Ark</strong> challenges the blockade by building hope on the ground  in Gaza, and affirms our confidence that the Palestinians of Gaza can  rebuild their economy through outbound trade that threatens no-one’s  security. <br /> <br /> With your support, the work on <strong>Gaza's Ark</strong> will start this summer. You will be able to follow its progress with regular updates on the web (<a href="http://www.gazaark.org" target="_blank">www.gazaark.org</a>), on Facebook (<a href="http://www.facebook.com/GazaArk" target="_blank">www.facebook.com/GazaArk</a>) and Twitter (@GazaArk).<br /> <br /> You can reach us by email at <a href="http://info@GazaArk.org" target="_blank">info@GazaArk.org</a>.</span></span>
