---
layout: post
title: ! 'International Pressure to Israel: Stop the Blockade of Gaza NOW'
joomla_id: 1357
joomla_url: international-pressure-to-israel-stop-the-blockade-of-gaza-now
date: 2012-06-15 11:31:31.000000000 +02:00
---
<p data-ft="{"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span data-ft="{">International Pressure Mounts Over Gaza Blockade</span></span></span></p>
<p data-ft="{"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span data-ft="{"><br /> Gaza 14 June 2012: Fifty international charities and United Nations  Agencies have unanimously called for the lifting of the blockade of  Gaza. The organizations have published a simple three line statement to  mark the fifth anniversary of the tightening of the blockade of the  Strip. It reads:<br /> <br /> For over five years in Gaza, more than 1.6  million people have been under blockade in violation of international  law. More than half of these people are children. We the undersigned say  with one voice: “end the blockade now.”<br /> <br /> The government of  Israel is facing mounting international criticism for the Gaza blockade  and this unanimous statement from some of the most world’s most  respected international organizations is likely to increase pressure for  the blockade to be lifted.<br /> <br /> The international aid and development signatories include:<br /> 1.    Action Contre la Faim (ACH)<br /> 2.    Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development  (Acted)<br /> 3.    American Friends Service Committee (AFSC)<br /> 4.    Amnesty International<br /> 5.    Broederlijk Delen<br /> 6.    CARE International<br /> 7.    CCFD-Terre Solidaire<br /> 8.    Christian Aid<br /> 9.    Christian Peacemaker Team<br /> 10.  Cordaid<br /> 11.  Danchurchaid<br /> 12.  Diakonia<br /> 13.  A Different Jewish Voice (Een Ander Joods Geluid)<br /> 14.  Emergency Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (EWASH)<br /> 15.  Gruppo di Volontariato Civile (GVC)<br /> 16.  Handicap International<br /> 17.  Help Age International<br /> 18.  International Orthodox Christian Charities (IOCC)<br /> 19.  IKV  Pax Christi<br /> 20.  International Learning Center<br /> 21.  Life for Relief and Development<br /> 22.  Medicos del Mundo - España (MDM Spain)<br /> 23.  Médecins du Monde France (MdM France)<br /> 24.  Medical Aid for Palestinians (MAP)<br /> 25.  Medico International<br /> 26.  Movement for Peace (MPDL)<br /> 27.  Norwegian People’s Aid (NPA)<br /> 28.  Norwegian Church Aid (NCA)<br /> 29.  Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC)<br /> 30.  Oxfam<br /> 31.  Palestine Solidarity Association of Sweden<br /> 32.  Polish Humanitarian Action (PAH)<br /> 33.  Première Urgence - Aide Médicale Internationale<br /> 34.  Save the Children<br /> 35.  Secours Islamique France<br /> 36.  Swedish Organization for Individual Relief<br /> 37.  Terre des Hommes Italy (TdH Italy)<br /> 38.  Terre des Hommes Lausanne (TdH Suisse)<br /> 39.  Terre des Homme<br /> 40.  Trócaire<br /> 41.  The Carter Center<br /> 42.  United Nations Association International Service (UNAIS)<br /> 43.  War Child<br /> <br /> The United Nations signatories include:<br /> 1.    United Nations Humanitarian/Resident Coordinator, occupied  Palestinian territory 2.    Office of the High Commissioner for Human  Rights (OHCHR)<br /> 3.    United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)<br /> 4.    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)<br /> 5.    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)<br /> 6.    United Nations Women<br /> 7.    World Health Organization (WHO)<br /> <br /> *ENDS*<br /> For media enquiries about the statement, please contact Willow Heske at  willow.heske@oxfamnovib.nl or +972 (0) 597133646 or +972 (0)546395002</span></span></span></p>
