---
layout: post
title: Estelle crew were beaten during the attack and by interrogators
joomla_id: 1379
joomla_url: estelle-crew-were-beaten-during-the-attack-and-by-interrogators
date: 2012-10-23 11:30:58.000000000 +02:00
---
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;"><big><span style="font-family: Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;"><big><strong></strong></big></span></big><br /> <em><big></big></em><em>for </em><em>immediate</em><em> release</em><br /> Montreal; 20121022 - 22h00<br /> <br /> As<strong> Jim Manly</strong>, former Canadian  MP (1980-88) and             retired United Church Minister, <strong>continues to be detained               in Israel</strong> with many of the other crew members of the             Estelle, without any news about when he will be released.              This despite freeing the Greek, Italian and Spanish citizens             who were on the Estelle and the release of Israeli activists             after being detained and charged. <br /> <br /> Elik Elhanan, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">one of the               Israelis released, </span>said that e</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">xcessive force and             tasers were used against them and that a Greek MP was beaten             by Shabak Security Service interrogators.<br /> <br /> "I am now on my way home, but I keep thinking of my             shipmates, my fellow activists from abroad who are still             imprisoned under harsh conditions and undergo  interrogation             by the Shabak Security Service, among them Parliament             Members from several countries," said Elik Elhanan, one of             the Israeli activists who had sailed aboard the Gaza-bound             Swedish ship "Estelle". Today, the court ordered his release             and that of two other detained Israelis, Yonatan Shapira and             Reut Mor. "At first they tried to charge us with all kinds             of very serious felonies, such as 'aiding the enemy'. The             court rejected this out of hand. Today they tried an article             on the law books called "Attempted infiltration into a part             of the Land of Israel which is not part of the State of             Israel" (sic). But the court threw out this charge, too".             The detained activists were represented by Attorney Gaby             Lasky and her team, who have considerable experience with             Human Rights cases.<br /> <br /> The released detainees were cheerfully greeted by peace             activists who arrived at the courtroom, among them Elik             Elhanan's  parents - Rami Elhanan and Nurit Peled-Elhanan,             who is the daughter of the late Major General Matti Peled.             Smadar Elhanan, Elik's sister, was killed in a suicide             bombing at the center of Jerusalem – a harsh experience             which made surviving family members all the more determined             to strive for peace between Israel and the Palestinians, so             as to prevent further casualties on either side.<br /> <br /> "They used a completely disproportional amount of force             against us" continues Elhanan. "When the Navy arrived to             take us over, Yonatan Shapira counted no less than fifteen             vessels surrounding us on all sides. Large and small ships             and boats, a ship carrying a helicopter, as well as the             Zodiacs of the Naval Commandos. Fifteen armed naval vessels             against one small civilian boat carrying games for the             children of Gaza. We must have disturbed very much the Navy             and those who give orders to the Navy."<br /> <br /> "These testimonies increase our concern for Jim and continue             to raise the question why aren't the Canadian government and             the opposition NDP doing more to secure his release?"  Said             Eva Manly, Jim's wife.<br /> <br /> -- 30 --<br /> <br /> <em>for more information:</em><br /> <strong>Canada:</strong><br /> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ehab Lotayef <a href="tel:514-941-9792" value="+15149419792" target="_blank">514-941-9792</a> <br /> </span>Sandra Ruch <a href="tel:416-716-4010" value="+14167164010" target="_blank">416-716-4010</a> <br /> Nino Pagliccia <a href="tel:604-831-9821" value="+16048319821" target="_blank">604-831-9821</a> <br /> <br /> <strong>Israel:</strong><br /> Elik Elhanan <a href="tel:%2B972-2-5700112" value="+97225700112" target="_blank">+972-2-5700112</a> <br /> Nurit Peled-Elhanan <a href="tel:%2B972-547-578703" value="+972547578703" target="_blank">+972-547-578703</a><br /> Gaby Lasky (</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">attorney )</span> <a href="tel:%2B972-54-4418988" value="+972544418988" target="_blank">+972-54-4418988</a></span>
