---
layout: post
title: ! 'Israel Is Dangerously Breaking the Ceasefire '
joomla_id: 1393
joomla_url: israel-is-dangerously-breaking-the-ceasefire-
date: 2012-12-03 10:04:49.000000000 +01:00
---
<p><span style="color: #000000;">The report below is from Maria del mar Ferndandez, one of the board members of Free Gaza. She will remain in Gaza until the end of the year and will make periodic reports to us. Contact her at </span><span style="color: #000000;">00 972 (0) 595 157 194</span></p>
<p><span style="color: #000000;"><span>Gaza City, December 3, 2012: In the  last 4 days, Israelis have arrested 31 fishermen, destroyed a boat, kept  another one they say for three years, distroyed 4 motors of the boats.  They say also that Israelis are not shooting any more water cannons but  real fire, and when they arrest Palestinians, one of their main  interests in interrogations is to get information about internationals. <br /> <br />Most of the fishermen in the fishermen's union and another fishing  association decided the day before yesterday not to go out to the sea,  because they cannot bear that more fishermen are arrested and the  boats badly damaged. There is still one fisherman kept in prison. The decision  was also to wait for the next ten days so that conversations in Cairo about the ceasefire are completed in order to be sure of the 6  miles nautical miles. Most of the information is published by PCHR in  Gaza.<br /> <br />On Wednesday, December 5,  fishermen and internationals will demonstrate at the  harbour, and we have been asked to bring the flags of our own countries  to make visible our support and to spread the news as much as  possible.<br /><br /> Yesterday, some fishermen dared to go out fishing,  because they said they preferred to be dead rather than stop bringing  food for their families.<br /><br /> As for the farmers, they have been shot  at in Beit Lahya where we wisited one of the families, and also yesterday  Israelis were shooting at farmers and internationals in the buffer  zone of Khan Younis. That's why Rosa, the Italian international here, asked most of us today to go to  support them. But in the early morning they phoned that there was heavy  shooting (real fire of course) and they could not go to their  lands in these conditions, even accompanied by internationals. So, some  of them have gone just to interview the farmers.<br /> <br />The statement for the European parliamentaries and to the world  should be that Israel is breaking dangerously the ceasefire as people  cannot bear this situation of being denied their most elemental rights  to life, and security.<br /> <br />Two people have been dead since the "ceasefire", one in the South,  and one in the North with an unexploded bomb of the last attack.</span></span></p>
