---
layout: post
title: Visits to Families in Gaza, January 10, 2013
joomla_id: 1400
joomla_url: visits-to-families-thursday-10th-january
date: 2013-01-11 08:36:25.000000000 +01:00
---
<p><span>Theresa McDermott was on Free Gaza's first trip, August 22-28, 2008 when we broke through Israel's siege. She was also on several other trips, was kidnapped on the June, 2009 voyage and thrown into an Israeli prison. She went back to Gaza during the last Israeli attack in November 2012. Below is Part 1 of her interviews with the families in Gaza.<br /> <br />Before  I start to tell these accounts I need to say something about the  current weather conditions here. It is very cold, there have been  continuous very strong winds and heavy rain with absolutely torrential  bursts. The ground is saturated and very muddy, many places are flooded.  In our comparitively luxurious appartment which has continuous power  because it is the building that Save the Children use and therefore has a  generator to provide power when the power cuts happen, we are huddled  round a heater wearing coats all day because we are so cold. What it's  like for families living in desperate conditions with no genrator so  having power cuts for much of the day, 8 hours a day, sometimes more due  to power rationing, I can't imagine.<br /> <br /> THE ABU SAID FAMILY, JOHR EL DYK NEAR GAZA CITY<br /> <br />This  is a beautiful farming area just outside Gaza City, the fields are  fertile and the farms all look quite prosperous. Naser Abu Said the  father of the family told us their story. He said that 3 years ago in  spite of the fact that their house was only 300 m from the Israeli  security fence on the border their life was good, they felt fairly  secure as they had not been attacked in Operation Cast Lead so assumed  that the Israelis knew that they were just a farming family living there  with no connections to political parties. They were used to bombing all  around their area but didn't think that they were going to be targeted. </span></p>
<p><span>On the 13th of July 2010 this changed, they were all sitting round  drinking tea, when the Israelis mounted an incursion onto their land, the army arrived  with tanks and soldiers. At first the tanks shelled around their house  injuring his younger sister, then they changed to using the heavy caliber  machine guns. His wife realized that one of their children was still  outside and went to bring him inside to safety. While she was outside  they again shelled around the house using flechette shells killing his  wife and injuring his father, their child managed to run to safety  inside the house. For 3 hours they were stuck inside the house unable to  reach their injured family members before the Israelis eventually  allowed them to go out to attend to the injured and bury his wife. <br /></span></p>
<p><span>From  then until 28th April 2011 they continued to live in their damaged  home, but on the 28th April the Israelis came back, everyone was inside  the house when they opened fire on the house hitting it directly,  injuring 3 of his children and destroying the house. It took an hour  this time, calling frantically to the Red Cross and other people before  the Israelis allowed them to leave and take the injured children to  hospital. <br /></span></p>
<p><span>Now the house is partly repaired with a couple of rooms  usable, but his children are too afraid to return to it, so his parents  and sister are living there in very difficult conditions. He is building  a new house around 500m further away from the fence. This has been  started,but he does not have enough money to carry on the work so he,  his new wife and 6 children are all living in 3 small tents with  electricity for half of the day brought by wires from the town and the  few posessions they salvaged inside the tents. </span></p>
<p><span>This is incredibly hard  in the summer but just now during the Winter it must be almost  impossible, this last month there has been extremely heavy rain and gale  force winds, it's extremely cold. All around the house there is water  and the ground has been turned to mud, the tents do not keep out all of  the rain, so it's very hard to keep dry and warm, and using the  electricity is dangerous. </span></p>
