---
layout: post
title: Families of Flotilla Dead Want More than Apology
joomla_id: 1411
joomla_url: families-of-flotilla-dead-want-more-than-apology
date: 2013-04-11 15:22:37.000000000 +02:00
---
<p style="font-size: small;">By <a href="http://www.truthdig.com/col_ann_wright/">Col. Ann Wright, Free Gaza Board Member<br /></a></p>
<p style="font-size: small;">Representatives of the Foundation for  Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (IHH), the Turkish  nongovernmental organization that coordinated the passengers on the ship  Mavi Marmara that was part of the 2010 Gaza Freedom Flotilla, say that  families of the nine passengers killed by Israeli commandos have  rejected the country’s <a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-21902273" title="recent apology">recent apology</a>.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">The eight Turkish citizens and one American  were killed during a nonviolent mission to challenge the Israeli naval  blockade of Gaza, and the families do not consider either an Israeli  government apology or the offer of compensation for the death of their  loved ones a fulfillment of their mission.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">The IHH personnel also announced in the  wake of the apology that an indictment filed in the Istanbul High  Criminal Court on May 29, 2012, against four senior Israeli government  military and intelligence officials will proceed. The four  defendants—the former chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces, the  Israeli navy commander, the Israeli air force intelligence director and  the head of the IDF Military Intelligence Directorate—face charges  including willful killing, plundering and seizing maritime vessels.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">A political apology by the Israeli  government to the Turkish one cannot stop the legal process under way in  the Turkish courts, IHH staffers say. Turkey’s president can’t order  his nation’s courts to drop the case, and to do so would be a violation  of its laws.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">

</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">The first criminal complaint concerning the  Israeli attack that left the nine dead was filed in October 2010 at the  International Criminal Court. Although President Obama recently cajoled  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to apologize to the Turkish  government for the deaths of its citizens, he apparently <a href="http://www.counterpunch.org/2013/03/27/just-a-us-citizen-no-big-deal/" title="did not ask">did not ask</a> for a public apology regarding the death of the U.S. one, 19-year-old  Furkan Dogan. Nor did the president authorize a U.S. government  investigation into the death of Dogan; instead, the Obama administration  said in 2010 that it had confidence in the inquiry conducted by Israel,  a probe that revealed nearly three years later that there were  “operational mistakes” in the conduct of the raid on the six ships of  the Gaza Freedom Flotilla.</p>
<div style="font-size: small;"></div>
Obama is alleged to have known that Dogan was <a href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/cenk-uygur/israeli-defense-forces-ex_b_600282.html" title="executed">executed</a> at close range by Israeli commandos. Shortly after the Gaza flotilla  raid, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan reportedly showed him  photos taken in the Istanbul morgue of Dogan’s body with bullet wounds  to the head. Israeli commandos are said to have shot Dogan five times at  close range. Obama reportedly turned away from the photo that showed  the bullet wound to Dogan’s face.
<p style="font-size: small;">Now, nearly three years later, we know from a U.S. government document obtained by the <a href="http://ccrjustice.org/files/US_Passengers_Production_Guide.pdf" title="Center for Constitutional Rights ">Center for Constitutional Rights</a> through a Freedom of Information Act request that the U.S. State  Department and the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv were in frequent contact  with the Israeli government concerning the flotilla before, during and  after the raid.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">“Upon learning that American citizens  (‘Amcits’) would participate in the May 2010 flotilla, several State  Department officials expressed concerns that the Americans may be harmed  or at least detained by Israeli forces. However, no records have been  released reflecting any high level discussions that may have occurred on  the need to protect the lives of participants or encouraging opening  the flow of aid and commerce into Gaza,” the document says. “To the  contrary, despite having been informed by organizers of the non-violent  humanitarian purpose of their mission, released records point to a  pattern of U.S. officials blaming flotilla participants for ‘putting  themselves in danger’ rather than working to reduce the risk of such  danger from an Israeli attack.”</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">In addition to the apology, Israel also  offered compensation to the families of those killed in the attack. IHH  representatives say Israel’s offer of compensation does not extend to  those who were wounded by the commandos. One passenger, for example, has  been in a coma for almost three years, while many other passengers who  were seriously wounded continue to suffer from their injuries. Not all  of the wounded are from Turkey, and, as the IHH pointed out, no Israeli  apology has been made to them or their governments.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">To some, an Israeli apology is remarkable  as they believe the country has almost never said it was sorry for any  of its actions. And they would say that an apology and an  acknowledgement of “operational mistakes” are better than silence from  the nation’s government.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">However, passengers on the flotilla did not  go on the voyage to Gaza for their own gratification: They went to  bring attention to the plight of Palestinians. When Palestinians are  routinely killed in the West Bank and Gaza by the IDF, when Palestinians  are subjected to inhumane checkpoints and apartheid walls, when the  blockade of Gaza continues and when Israel attacks Gaza as it did in  2009, leaving 1,400 Palestinians dead, and in 2012, killing more than  300 Palestinians, then something beyond an apology is required.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">If it had been any other country in the  world that had committed these acts, the U.S. would have withdrawn  military and economic aid; instead, the Israeli government was pressured  to issue an apology.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">That’s not right, and nearly everyone else in the world, except the American government, knows it.</p>
<p style="font-size: small;">International citizen activists will  continue to challenge the inhumane Israeli actions toward Palestinians  in Gaza, the West Bank and Jerusalem.The next challenge of the naval blockade will be <a href="http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/families_of_flotilla_dead_want_more_than_an_apology_20130408/www.gazaark.org" title="Gaza's Ark">Gaza’s Ark</a>, which will attempt to break the Israeli quarantine by carrying export products from Gaza out by boat.</p>
